## Understanding Life Purpose

10/1s are here to channel their prolific creative energies in constructive, positive ways, inspiring others with an energy-infused charisma in order to utilize their intuitive gifts. However, since what we are here to do does not always come easily, 10/1s must first mature and overcome the obstacles and negative tendencies of the double 1—especially insecurity (feeling less than others) and the need to prove themselves—in order to fulfill their life purpose. These issues may incline them to discover their talents later in life, and instead of taking risks to experiment with new endeavors, they may focus their efforts on areas that come to them more readily.

Those with single-digit birth numbers (the 4s, 5s, 6s, 7s, 8s, and 9s) as well as the 20/2s, 30/3s, and 40/4s are accompanied on a life path that is relatively uncomplicated by the challenges of the double-digit birth numbers. Thus, 10/1s are likely to experience a single-minded focus of both challenge and potential within the arena of creative energy. They feel a sense of rightness to the degree that they apply creative thinking and innovation to any and every area of their lives—and although they may still struggle with challenges in relationships, health, or career—they experience fulfillment or a sense that their purpose is being lived.

As the 10/1 matures, learns life’s lessons, and trusts in the faculty of intuitive discernment (the 0)—that is, is able to see or sense where the light is calling them—along with their innate impulses, fears, values, direction, and purpose, it is the double-1 challenge of how to channel their prolific creative energies that takes center stage.

This energy is a double-edged sword in that it can be used positively (constructively) or negatively (destructively), much like a fire can be used to warm a hearth or burn down a house. It is imperative that 10/1s recognize that they cannot deny their creative energies indefinitely and that they will create, either positively or negatively, but create they will.

### Working 10/1 in the Positive

Individuals working 10/1 in the positive are guided by a clear inner compass; they draw others to them and inspire them with their energy, originality, and innovative approaches to work and play. They are fun to be around, inviting others to look at their lives and their possibilities in new ways. They are direct and confident—with a take-a-chance attitude—in their interactions with others, and people are drawn to their dynamism and follow their lead. They prefer improvisation and spontaneity to repetitive routines, and whether their field is art, business, or hobbies, they love to create and bring newness to all aspects of life.

### Working 10/1 in the Negative

Competitive and insecure, these 10/1s ignore their intuitive inner voice and settle for less than they deserve, playing it safe so as not to make mistakes for fear of humiliation or of appearing foolish. Their approach to life tends to be mechanical—a project rather than a process of thought and creativity—and they are strategic rather than spontaneous. Feeling less than others, these individuals tend to remain silent; may struggle with addictions to food, alcohol, or drugs; and seek to prove themselves with an intense need to win in the outer world, thus becoming profitable in the struggle to survive. Or, overcome with insecurity, they may avoid the competitive arena entirely, fearing that they won’t achieve the desired results. 

## Life-Path Issues

### Health

Because of the double 1, 10/1s need a diet rich in protein—eggs, fish, or poultry—which may be more helpful to their sense of being grounded than a purely vegan diet.

Regular but varied exercise, especially cardiovascular or aerobic exercise such as running, brisk walking, biking, or swimming—not just for health reasons, but as a way for them to positively channel their prolific energies—is good for these individuals. Otherwise, they can lower their energy levels with addictions. They have a sensitive energy field that may not tolerate alcohol or recreational drugs. Some 10/1s may have sensitive reproductive organs; therefore, the usual practices and precautions regarding reproductive health apply.

### Relationships

Like all birth numbers, 10/1s are here to establish a strong, supportive relationship with themselves as a foundation for creating authentic connections with others. The need to constantly prove themselves, whether it’s needing to win over others in a game or a sport, or with their talents in a chosen field, doesn’t make for secure and supportive relationships. So, 10/1s need to learn to direct their brilliant energies and focus outward, taking their minds off themselves, so as to understand the innate insecurity—the sense of not being as good as others—they were born with. More than anything else, this will allow them to create intimacy and bonding as well as allow them to trust themselves.

### Talents, Work, and Finances

While the creative arts such as painting, collage, design, sculpting, writing, music, and acting offer a variety of creative outlets, 10/1s may also find themselves in business, education, politics, building, architecture, or any other field where they are able to innovate and implement outside-the-box thinking in order to solve problems. Since each number represents the promise of a different kind of intelligence, it could be said that the double 1 has a creative intelligence that parallels but is not the same as the 6’s ability to envision a more perfect world. They can use that intelligence effectively to create scenarios, solutions, and ideas that have not existed before. When combined with the 0’s intuitive discernment, magic can happen when the 10/1’s energy is flowing. 

## Some Well-Known 10/1s

Sasha Obama, daughter of the forty-fourth U.S. president, is the only 10/1 we have to reference at this time. In 2018, when this book, in its twenty-fifth anniversary edition, was going to press, the oldest 10/1s were eighteen years old, which is generally not enough time to make one’s mark. As the 10/1s mature and make their mark on the world, perhaps future editions of this book will feature their names. 

## Keys to Fulfilling Your Destiny

If you are a 10/1, this section can help you fulfill your life purpose by focusing your attention on the key issues and suggesting specific actions to take that can help transform key areas of your life. 

### Guidelines and Recommendations

* Do something creative every day; practice seeing people, events, and situations from a different perspective.
* Transcend insecurity by seeing it as an obstacle that is asking to be overcome, and like an actor, act “as if” you are feeling confident even when you aren’t.
* Find positive ways to express your creativity through your work or hobbies.
* Create a varied daily exercise program to release pent-up energy, lessen addictions, or eliminate them.
* Find creative ways to be of service in the world.

### Useful Questions

1.  Reflect on the following questions:
    *   How am I using my creative energy?
    *   How am I expressing my inner gifts and talents?
2.  If these questions evoke any insights, how can you implement them?
