## Understanding Life Purpose

Those on the 21/3 or 12/3 life path are here to work through issues of creativity, emotional expression, balance, and cooperation in support of people or causes, applying their energy in positive, constructive ways to teach, uplift, and inspire. To face the inevitable challenges of their life path, 21/3s and 12/3s need courage to overcome the insecurity and self-doubt that may hinder them and need to learn to channel their creative and emotional energies in positive ways. Otherwise, when burdened by doubt or feeling insecure, they may tend to discharge their energies in self-destructive ways, through alcohol, tobacco, or other drugs. If 21/3s or 12/3s suppress their emotional expression, they experience that suppression in their body as physical tension or a variety of other symptoms.

Those working 21/3 or 12/3 are among the most well-rounded, versatile, creative people on Earth. With the 2 providing support and strength, both 21/3s and 12/3s can invent, innovate, synthesize, or package impressive works in any field of endeavor. They can express their creativity through any form or material, and the spirit of their message still comes through.

With the first two numbers (1 and 2) in different order, for 21/3s, creativity issues (1) are more pressing, whereas for 12/3s, cooperation (2) issues predominate, due to these numbers' relative position and influence. Both 21/3s and 12/3s, however, share the same primary issues of sensitivity, self-doubt, and emotional expression so focused in 30/3s. By virtue of their life purpose, they face issues of negative expression, such as criticizing and complaining. In most cases, they express in negative ways when their feelings are hurt.

### Working 12/3 in the Positive

These individuals do brilliant and sensitive work; they include some of the most creative people on the planet. Their body is relaxed, supple, and relatively free of tension because they express their feelings as they arise, honestly and openly, rather than storing them as neuromuscular tensions. They breathe deeply and easily. Their relationships thrive on honesty and emotional acceptance; when problems arise, they talk those problems over and resolve them. These individuals feel genuine pleasure in uplifting others through their caring words, whether through teaching, acting, singing, writing, or working in a grocery store. The occupation doesn't matter, as long as they have opportunities to reach out to people and build emotional bridges.

### Working 12/3 in the Negative

These hypersensitive individuals give mixed messages; they act confident and then collapse under the weight of criticism. They come back with cutting remarks and hurt back or withdraw, all without revealing their authentic feelings. Over time, their physical tension and lack of suppleness reflect the degree of emotion they are suppressing. Filled with self-doubt and stifled emotions, insecurity and blocked creativity, stubbornness and reactivity, they fool no one but themselves.

## Life-Path Issues

### Health

This is one of the physically strongest patterns, with the vigor of 2 and the energy of 1. Like 30/3s, both 21/3s and 12/3s have sensitive throat regions and may experience occasional flare-ups when their expression is blocked; if this condition is chronic, they may eventually require surgery. If their creative energies are blocked or suppressed, they may encounter issues in the lower abdomen or reproductive areas - for example, stomach problems, hernias, or difficulties with the ovaries in women or prostate in men.

Generally, however, 21/3s and 12/3s are physically strong and robust. If they repress their feelings, this is like corking up a volcano; their body feels the effects of stopping up the energy that is meant to flow freely. As long as they pay attention to expressing their creative energy in the positive and keeping their emotions open and flowing, both 21/3s and 12/3s enjoy exceptional health. When they do need healing, they do best to combine whatever treatment they get with some form of emotional healing. Listening to emotional music or even going to emotional movies gives these sensitive, creative people a chance to express themselves. If they can't even cry at the movies, they definitely need to explore the ways they are blocking expression.

For 21/3s and 12/3s, excess weight usually reflects blocked creativity. A two-faceted program of balanced exercise and a creative hobby can bring their body to optimal balance. For these individuals, exercise is a good way to clear suppressed emotions. Because of their creative, emotional nature, 21/3s and 12/3s feel attuned to nature and music, which soothe their sensitive character. Listening to music and taking walks outdoors can help them heal and recharge on emotional and physical levels.

### Relationships

The key to relationships for 21/3s and 12/3s entails a willingness to "lose face" and find themselves by expressing what they feel, in the moment. They benefit from asking themselves periodically during the day, "How do I really feel right now?" Once they tune in to how they're feeling, it's important that they express these feelings in some way - not just the safe, "okay" feelings, but also anger, impatience, shame, embarrassment, jealousy, and competitiveness. This practice begins a process of emotional awakening and physical rejuvenation.

Both 12/3s and especially 21/3s often experience a masked form of insecurity in their relationships. For example, they may flirt to see if others still find them attractive, or they may feel or act competitive with their partner for fear of falling into a subordinate position.

When they're doing creative work, 21/3s and, to a lesser degree, 12/3s may have little time or energy for relationships. Because 21/3s and 12/3s sometimes block emotionally charged negative feelings, such as anger or sorrow, they sometimes withdraw emotionally. The wall they build also keeps out the positive feelings of love, affection, and passion. They may need to take part in some good arguments during which they stay emotionally and physically present. Such an outlet of expression can bring back old passions. The core of a strong relationship for 21/3s and 12/3s is emotional contact, even if this means passionate arguments.

### Talents, Work, and Finances

Both 21/3s and 12/3s display a strong combination of creative and expressive energy for writing, designing, speaking, debating, advising, promoting, or engaging in any creative field. Although they are extremely versatile, 21/3s and 12/3s are happiest when expressing and creating while supporting and uplifting others.

No matter what their work, 21/3s and 12/3s generally confront some self-doubt and insecurity. With persistence, they earn positive feedback and support from others, and their confidence grows.

The well-rounded energies of 21/3s and 12/3s make for useful, innovative work. When they get past the double hurdles of self-doubt and insecurity and let their feelings and creative juices flow, so will their finances.

## Some Well-Known 12/3s

Helen Hayes

## Keys to Fulfilling Your Destiny

If you are working 21/3 or 12/3, this section can help you manifest your life purpose by focusing your attention on core issues and by generating specific action to transform key areas of your life.
