## Understanding Life Purpose

Those on the 20/2 life path are here to use their inner gifts in a spirit of service and to establish healthy boundaries and balanced responsibility in order to achieve joyful cooperation and mutual support. From this point of balance, 20/2s can cooperatively serve the common good out of love and caring rather than codependence. Not all codependents work 20/2, of course, nor do all 20/2s behave like codependents, but until they find a balance point, 20/2s tend to feel overly responsible and overhelp, then feel resentful and withdraw emotionally.

Because 20/2s feel so responsible and on some level blame themselves, even for other people's problems, they quickly find fault with others as a defensive maneuver, as if to say, "It's not my fault!" All 20/2s need to take full responsibility for their own life but not feel responsible for the lives of others, except, of course, in appropriate situations, such as caring for children.

Most 20/2s need to define clearly the difference between service and servitude. In the larger sense, 20/2s can develop the ability to cooperate with life itself, rather than resisting the situations or circumstances they meet.

In their life and relationships, 20/2s start out doing too much; then the pendulum inevitably swings the other way, and they freeze up, resist, or withdraw. They're here to find their comfort zone and define their limits—choosing to do what they feel good about, and, when they don't feel good, knowing when to say, "Enough," before they have to say, "I'm fed up." As 20/2s get in touch with what they feel rather than what they or others think they should feel, they can truly support, and also feel supported by, others.

### Working 20/2 in the Positive

These individuals balance strength and flexibility, home and work, time for others and time for self. Their bodies stay relaxed and supple, reflecting their internal equanimity, because they worry less and intuit more. Consummate problem solvers and mediators in family or business, they help others to reach agreement, just as they have reached internal harmony and integration within themselves. Using both their strength and sensitivity in support of others, they feel useful and appreciated; they support and appreciate themselves, as well, honoring their boundaries, feelings, and limits.

### Working 20/2 in the Negative

No one ever knows what these individuals want, not even themselves; they're too preoccupied doing what they think they are supposed to do, and they are quick to expect that others should do the same. Chronically codependent, they feel responsible for almost everything, keeping the moon and stars in place while meeting everyone's needs. Other people's whims become their demands. They "sacrifice for others" and then resent it; they tend to give too much, then resist or withdraw completely. Physically, mentally, and emotionally stressed from worrying about everyone else, they suffer from allergies and other ailments.

## Life-Path Issues

### Health

Their strong, generally vigorous body and robust disposition fight off most illness, but 20/2s are prone to tension as their worry and their busy mind impose chronic, thought-produced stress on their body. Allergies may flare up in times of stress, and physical tension may obstruct the efficient working of the lymphatic portion of the immune system.

Most 20/2s (like 40/4s and 22/4s) tend toward either stocky, wide bodies, reflecting their strength, or more wiry bodies that are surprisingly resilient. When excessive weight is an issue, 20/2s benefit from aerobic exercise and a low-fat diet, along with stretching, deep breathing, and relaxation or meditation training. Meditation and suppleness are very important for 20/2s, but they tend to avoid both, preferring outward, expansive training for strength - a quality they already have in abundance. Most 20/2s have great potential strength but lack flexibility, so the best kind of exercise for them teaches flow, suppleness, and balance, as do dance, yoga, t'ai chi, aikido, and other martial arts that emphasize stretching and relaxation.

Nearly all 20/2s have close ties to the subconscious, so they benefit from hypnosis and from positive visualization, in contrast to the negative fantasies and concerns to which they sometimes fall prey.

### Relationships

Most 20/2s tend to withhold their real feelings when they are overcooperating because they aren't always sure what they feel—or "if it's okay" to feel that way. They generally pay attention to their partner's needs and feelings first, but then they may feel burdened if they believe they're giving more support than they are getting.

The tendency of 20/2s to overcooperate and then undercooperate reveals itself most clearly in relationships. They put their feelings on the back burner until something inside of them bursts, and then they become reactive and resentful. Anger or resentment are signs that 20/2s have been overcooperating.

They typically start out a relationship in overcooperation, tossing their own values, interests, and needs out the window and, chameleon-like, becoming whatever their partner seems to want. Then, eventually, they swing into undercooperation and withdraw or resist. If their relationship ends, they feel hurt: "I gave so much, and he/she left me!"

The ability to compromise and negotiate is crucial for 20/2s in relationship: "I'll do this much if you do that much." They're here to learn this kind of mutual cooperation.

Sexually, 20/2s follow the same patterns, first doing what they think the other person wants them to do. This period may go on for a short period or for many years—until they become frigid or impotent, or just withdraw sexually. Their subconscious turns off from a sense of having given too much. If this happens, 20/2s and their partners need to see a professional to open up lines of communication and rapport; having "a little talk" won't suffice.

### Talents, Work, and Finances

When inspired, those working 20/2 "walk a straight path through life"—balanced and unswayed by others' emotions, desires, or opinions. They can excel in many fields due to a balance of strength and sensitivity.

All 20/2s, with their inner gifts, demonstrate a powerful combination of strength and sensitivity that creates unusual capacities that don't always show on the surface. Like 40/4s, they generally gravitate toward family life and serve as supportive, dependable, caring helpmates and parents when working in the positive. They can also serve as quintessential diplomats in family squabbles or in the larger world of organizations or government.

Those working 20/2 have excellent organizing and coordinating abilities and make excellent mediators or negotiators. They often serve as invaluable assistants or support people whose presence and work make a real difference in any enterprise. They don't always work behind the scenes; sometimes they take center stage in front of the cameras, or even in the Oval Office. But for every famous 20/2, thousands work effectively behind the scenes.

Security is very important to 20/2s and entails knowing that the rent or mortgage money is available, with enough left over to put food on the table. Their practical nature will lead 20/2s, quite intuitively, to the secure situation they seek, and to the form of service that suits their abilities and temperament.

## Some Well-Known 20/2s

* Julie Andrews
* Richard Burton
* Piper Laurie
* Norman Mailer
* Edouard Manet
* Claude Monet
* Carlos Montoya
* Sidney Poitier
* Ronald Reagan
* Debbie Reynolds
* Dr. Benjamin Spock
* Elizabeth Cady Stanton
* Robert Louis Stevenson
* Gloria Vanderbilt

## Keys to Fulfilling Your Destiny

If you are working 20/2, this section can help you manifest your life purpose by focusing your attention on core issues and by generating specific action to transform key areas of your life.

### Guidelines and Recommendations

* When making decisions, write your ideas down and then trust your intuition.
* Learn to say no and feel okay about it.
* Exercise daily, and be sure to include stretching and relaxation in your routine.
* Balance giving with receiving.

### Useful Questions

1. Reflect on the following questions:
    * Do I sometimes bend too far backward for people and then feel resentful?
    * Where does my responsibility end and other people's begin?
    * Do I respect my comfort zone?
    * Do I feel trapped in any life situation?

2. If these questions generate any insights, how might you put these insights into practice?
