## Understanding Life Purpose

Those on the 46/10 life path are here to work through issues of creativity and high ideals, finding constructive ways to apply their energy and their inner gifts, following a practical, step-by-step process to manifest their vision of a better world. They can create a better world in modest ways at home or among a circle of friends, or in the world at large; the size of the arena is not important.

With 4 and 6 energies preceding and influencing the 10, 46/10s have challenges, strengths, and issues unlike other 10s. They may be in touch with the level of vital energy and strength influenced by the 4, but they may not feel very creative due to the perfectionist influence of the 6.

Using the method outlined in this book for determining birth numbers, we do not add together the final two digits of four-digit birth numbers. However, if we did add them together (1+0), we would end up with a 46/10/1, underscoring the potential influence of double creative energy (1) further intensified by the inner gifts of sensitivity, strength, expressiveness, and acute intuition (0).

Because most 4s have trouble progressing slowly through a step-by-step process, and since most 6s tend toward impatience, wanting the perfect product right now, the 46 combination entails exceptional challenges in learning to follow and enjoy the process involved in reaching goals. While 46/10s may sense their creative potential, in order to actualize it, they have to do what they have inherent difficulty doing. They have to slow down, lay a strong foundation of careful preparation, and develop the necessary skills. Then they can engage in extraordinarily creative, indeed brilliant, work in healing, the arts, business,

### Working 46/10 in the Positive

These individuals have distinctive qualities of strength, sensitivity, vision, and a bright, clear field of energy. They have the intuitive capacity to create a vision or internal ideal, along with the strength to work as long as it takes to help bring that vision into reality. Pioneers who point the way, they meet with success in business and in relationships by accepting people as they are while skillfully moving to uplift and reach out even farther and higher. These 46/10s are literally or figuratively visionary warrior-priests, working for higher justice.

### Working 46/10 in the Negative

Impatient, frustrated, insecure and discouraged because life never meets their expectations or time tables, these individuals want heaven on Earth, right now, but they don't appreciate the work required to bring it forth; like Don Quixote tilting at windmills, they seek the "impossible dream." Sensitive to criticism because they criticize themselves endlessly without realizing it, they don't really hear others' feedback or advice; instead, they create rationalizations that fool even themselves. Their judgments interfere with their direct intuitive sight. Focusing only on problems, they discharge frustrated creative energy through abusing alcohol, other drugs, food, or sex.

## Life-Path Issues

### Health

Nearly all 46/10s have a strong, highly refined body. If they are working in the positive, their high-minded lifestyle will help maintain their health. If they are working in the negative, problems may arise from substance abuse or inappropriate sexual activity. The most sensitive or vulnerable areas of their body include the reproductive area, abdominal region, and, sometimes, the knees.

Many 46/10s don't just eat; once they realize the powerful influence of diet on the body, they often study nutrition formally or informally to find the optimal diet. They need to remember that there is no perfect dietary regimen, only the best one for them at the present time. They also need to avoid quick-fix diet schemes and accept that change and adaptation happen over time.

Those working 46/10 tend to search for and find the highest kind of exercise for them, one that combines many benefits, such as gymnastics, martial arts, or a balance of other efficient activities.

### Relationships

Accepting their "lower" emotions is a big challenge for 46/10s because they tend to focus on what they believe they "should" feel rather than with what they really feel. Ideal mental images may hide their authentic self in a haze of denial and self-deception. The better 46/10s know and accept themselves, the better their relationships, because then they also accept others' imperfections more readily. Most 46/10s need to work toward accepting ordinary human emotions.

### Talents, Work, and Finances

Although their high standards, strength, analytical abilities, and sensitivity serve 46/10s in any occupation, some particularly suitable occupations include practicing some form of bodywork or serving as a personal or business adviser. In general, 46/10s also excel in any kind of work with structure, such as architecture or design. Other possibilities include gymnastics, martial arts, or dance, creating beauty using their body as the brush and the air as their canvas. They may even create new, higher forms of business that serve others.

These individuals need to avoid the trap of trying to find a "perfect" career or never feeling satisfied with any job. They need to pursue not just what they think they "should" do, but what attracts them. The keys for 46/10s include careful preparation, confidence, and patience.

Their financial success depends on and reflects their level of self-worth--how much abundance they feel they deserve--as well as on their willingness to follow a clear process without skipping steps. Overcoming insecurity poses another hurdle, although not to the same degree as for other people with birth numbers ending in 10.

## Some Well-Known 46/10s

No well-known 46/10s have surfaced in our records. The oldest 46/10s in this century were born in 1979, and this birth number appears far less often than many others; as time passes, more 46/10s will become well known.

## Keys to Fulfilling Your Destiny

If you are working 46/10, this section can help you manifest your life purpose by focusing your attention on core issues and by generating specific action to transform key areas of your life.

### Guidelines and Recommendations

* Recognize that achievement flows from constant practice.
* Treat your vision as a direction, not a goal.
* Keep dreaming, but create in practical ways.
* Prepare before you act; small steps make a big difference.

### Useful Questions

1. Reflect on the following questions:
    * How do I judge myself and others?
    * How do I express my creative energy?
    * How do I feel about projects that take a long time?
    * How do I utilize my sensitivity and strength?
    * How can I learn to think less and feel more?
2. If these questions generate any insights, how might you put these insights into practice?
