## Understanding Life Purpose

Single-digit 4s are here to utilize their inner and outer natural strengths and analytical minds to build a solid foundation—a launching pad—for their lives. However, since what we are here to do doesn’t happen easily, 4s must first overcome the obstacles and negative tendencies in their paths and processes in order for them to fulfill their life’s purpose. 

For this single-digit life path, please reread the section in Part Two that thoroughly describes the number 4 and all it represents. Here, I will highlight the key elements of the single-digit 4’s life path and purpose.

As mentioned in Part One, 4 is the first single-digit birth number to emerge in the twenty-first century. Because it lacks the multifarious issues and challenges associated with a two, three, or four, for those on the 4 life path, all matters coalesce around the themes of solidity, process, overanalysis, responsibility—and the values, urges, and challenges associated with willpower, including stubbornness, perseverance, and stamina.

Single-digit 4s have neither the positive or potentially negative intensity of double 4s (40/4, 44/8) nor the double-whammy power and strength of those birth numbers. Single-digit 4s are the softer versions of 40/4s; I recommend that 4s examine that birth number, as it most closely resembles theirs. These 4s are paradoxical: outspoken yet sometimes stubborn; physically solid but sometimes wiry and muscular; sensible yet not as strong as 40/4s or 44/8s.

Depending on how they channel their energies, single-digit 4s will either rise or fall by building a solid foundation upon which to build their lives, which entails a process of diligent effort in small steps over time in any given endeavor. The solid foundation is not the end of their journey, but the beginning, or base camp—from which they will eventually climb the mountain. 

Single-digit 4s have a natural propensity for analysis, but also for overanalyzing or getting hung up in analysis to the point where it is confusing or sidetracks them. Like others with a 4 in their birth number, they can tend to overreact, panic, or become overwhelmed before calmly assessing a situation. Ironically, because they are here to be grounded, 4s can also be spacey, even gullible at times when they have exhausted themselves with endless analysis.

Single-digit 4s need to let go of the “I can do it myself!” approach, to resign from being the general manager of the universe, when others won’t cooperate on a task or aren’t pulling their own weight. In other words, they need to be responsible, but not overly so. (Most often, responsibility is something that is shared by more than one person.) They also need to beware of being manipulated by those who are only too happy to have them do the lion’s share of the work. Therefore, like 2s, these 4s need to strike a realistic balance in terms of sharing the workload with others.

If there is one key to success for 4s, it is for them to slow down and develop the patience to reach their goals one small step at a time—never skipping any steps in the process. Since patience is not one of 4’s stronger suits, they will need to make a conscious effort to cultivate this virtue.

An apt metaphor for single-digit 4s is that of building a house on a solid foundation; perseverance is the mortar and resilience the nails—used to build the structure of their lives—from the ground up. Ultimately, these 4s can take a cue from Francis Cardinal Spellman: “Pray as if everything depended on God and work as if everything depended on you.”

### Working 4 in the Positive

When working 4 in the positive, these dependable and loyal individuals are easy to connect with when needed. They can thoroughly think through a situation and, with a keen analytical mind, are able to see both the advantages and disadvantages that others might miss. They have developed, through time and their own experience, perspective and patience. They have learned the power of breaking any task into small, manageable steps. Their sense of accomplishment is in the process, not just in achieving a goal. Family is a priority and sense of purpose for them as reflected by their birth number. They may sow their wild oats in their youth, but they ultimately desire to settle down, create a home, family, and life. 

### Working 4 in the Negative

These impatient and easily overwhelmed 4s can't quite grasp that their failures are a direct result of not planning thoroughly enough, not thinking things through, taking shortcuts, and believing things will take care of themselves. Such 4s will have occasional emotional outbursts while trying to figure out a clear path and feel stressed by being pulled in too many directions by their busy, overanalytical minds. While one part of them craves stability, they are just as likely to—without much thought—decide that it’s time for a change in their personal or professional relationships if things seem too settled and predictable. Restless and stubborn, once their minds are made up, these folks tend to "plan the work and work the plan,” even if circumstances change. 

## Life-Path Issues

### Health

Conventional health wisdom states that strength supports the joints more than flexibility does. This principle holds true with the solid foundations that are so important to single-digit 4s, but which do not come easily to them; if unprepared for physical exertion, single-digit 4s can be prone to lower-leg injuries. Strong legs are important, but in these 4s’ cases, both physical and mental flexibility is critical if they are to avoid the physical or mental rigidity to which they can be prone. (Because stubbornness is the shadow side of strength and is a potential pitfall for single-digit 4s, they need to be on the alert for psychosclerosis—the hardening of the attitudes.) 

Because of a tendency toward feeling overly responsible, single-digit 4s can somatize stress, which may manifest as allergies and especially as back tension—from carrying the weight of the world on their shoulders—until they discover that while stressful tension can be debilitating, tensionless stress can be managed. Any type of relaxation or meditation practice, even deep breathing and shaking loose during tense moments, can be helpful to these 4s. It is worth noting that overall, 4s tend to have strong constitutions and are quite resilient. 

### Relationships

Whether or not their biological families were nurturing and supportive, or even a presence in their lives, these folks who were born with a single-digit 4 are very much about family—the arena in which deeper understanding and insights regarding life’s issues can be gained. But as the saying goes, “Friends are the family we choose for ourselves,” so these 4s may also connect to that larger sense of family through their friendships. By nature, 4 is not an exclusive, but rather an inclusive, social frequency. Personal and professional relationships and networks may come naturally to these gregarious souls.

The challenges that single-digit 4s experience in relationships may often revolve around their innate and all-encompassing sense of responsibility. If they are working their negative side, they may, like 2s, single or coupled, be among the least responsible types—until they can gain some insight and balance in this arena. 

### Talents, Work, and Finances

Because they generally get along well with people, single-digit 4s can make good managers, salespeople, data analysts, and financial planners, often softening the strong “should” element. (Since solidity and stability are important to them.) Much of the success of these individuals depends on their mastering a process, preparing well for that process, building a solid foundation, and then proceeding methodically, step by step. 


## Some Well-Known 4s

In 2018, when the 25th Anniversary Edition of this book was published, the oldest single-digit 4s were eighteen years old—not enough time to make their mark. As more single-digit 4s mature and achieve notable success, their names may appear in future editions of this book.

## Keys to Fulfilling Your Destiny

If you are a single-digit 4 life path, this chapter can help you fulfill your destiny by focusing your attention on key issues and suggesting specific actions to transform those areas of your life that need it most.

### Guidelines and Recommendations

* Break large goals and commitments into small, manageable steps; divide and conquer.
* Balance your strength with physical and mental flexibility. 
* Whatever you undertake, prepare well, proceed steadily and methodically—and be flexible and adaptable to changing conditions—to see it through to completion.
* In making decisions, write down your options and trust your gut. 

### Useful Questions

1. Reflect on these questions: 
* Are you caught up in beliefs, opinions, expectations, hopes, and wishes about what you or other people “should” be doing, rather than knowing what any one person actually needs to do—otherwise known as playing God? 
* What are your goals right now? Write down the small, separate steps that you can take to achieve each one. 
* When making a decision, have you experimented with writing down the pros and cons and then checking in with your gut? 
* What are your feelings and thoughts about the word solidity as it applies to you? 
2. If these questions have triggered insights, how might you apply them?
