## Understanding Life Purpose

Single-digit 5s are here to experience freedom through the breadth and depth of experience made possible by discipline - by finding a current focus and establishing clear priorities. However, since what we are here to do does not come easily, these 5s must first overcome a tendency to scatter their energies because of an innate interest in, and attraction to, many aspects, situations, and facets of life before they can successfully fulfill their life purpose.

For this single-digit life path, please review the section in Part Two that discusses in detail the number 5 and all it represents. Here, I will highlight the key elements of the 5 life path and purpose.

For single-digit 5s, freedom has less to do with self-indulgence or living without restrictions and more to do with a love of expanding adventure. Given a choice between having money in the bank and having a new experience, these 5s will generally choose the experience, for experience is their currency in life.

Similar to the way in which 2s have to find a balance between too much cooperation and not enough, single-digit 5s have to overcome a tendency to swing from codependence to independence.  Because these 5s will find themselves here - sometimes working with others to achieve their goals and sometimes pursuing solo projects in order to arrive at a comfortable state of self-reliance - it is easy for them to confuse independence with freedom, with being able to take care of their own affairs without relying on others. The main thing for them to avoid is swinging between extremes, for these 5s find themselves at first at the mercy of others…

…where they can become dependent on them for their sense of security and well-being (or maneuver themselves into such situations) only to swing to the other extreme in an attempt at complete independence and emotional isolation, pulling away from and even becoming unavailable to those on whom they have been dependent, confusing detachment with freedom.

Like everyone with a 5 in their numerological chart, single-digit 5s have an innate desire for, and capacity to experience, a variety of things. This can lead them to pursue many things at the same time, becoming jacks-of-all-trades and masters of none, which can lead to frustration and burnout.  They would do well to investigate the meaning of the expression “When digging a well for water, you're much better off digging one well thirty feet deep than ten wells three feet deep each.” Otherwise they may find themselves with gardening, writing, martial arts, and computer programming listed as areas of expertise on their business cards, leaving others to wonder what it is they actually do.

This isn’t to say that single-digit 5s can’t engage in, and enjoy, a variety of interests, hobbies, and occupations, for they are here for adventure and experience. But these 5s need to prioritize and create a psychic ranking or hierarchy regarding which pursuits they will focus on now and which ones will come later - what they will give fifteen or thirty minutes of their time to versus what will engage them for hours on end. They must learn that they can do anything, but they cannot do everything - at least, not at the same time.

These individuals may not need or seek, or even create, as much drama as 32/5s do, but they instinctively dislike boredom and routine and therefore tend to gravitate toward experiences and memories that are…

…out of the ordinary, which may cause them to embellish their already full lives with tall tales that can ultimately result in their being seen by their friends as unreliable narrators.

Since every tendency carries within it the seeds of its opposite, these single-digit 5s can, at times, become almost obsessively focused on examining or pursuing one thing to the exclusion of all else. Again, the key here is balance, and the entire challenge for 5s lies in the area of balance, and the discipline that is required to achieve it.

Because of their broad perspective and the possibility that they can become a virtual smorgasbord of whatever is around them, being around these individuals can be stimulating and, at times, exhausting. Mature single-digit 5s on the path, who have developed a sense of discipline, have the potential to experience freedom as the result of a healthy sense of security and financial well-being, a freedom that allows them to travel, explore, and learn and to have the experiences that will broaden their already broad horizons.

### Working 5 in the Positive

These classic Renaissance individuals, who embody both focus and discipline as well as adventure and achievement, can become role models for what it means to live life to the fullest. Full of life and energy, these free spirits bring insight and even depth to every new endeavor because, as Joni Mitchell wrote in one of her songs, they “look at life from both sides now.” They remind the world that life is an adventure, and, like heat-seeking missiles, they target, lock on to, and go after whatever it is they need to experience - and do whatever it takes to get there. They experience the banquet of life by taking many small bites. They don’t just view the landscape from atop a cliff overlooking a lake; they jump in and explore its depths.

### Working 5 in the Negative

Feeling stifled and resentful of the person or persons they feel dependent upon, these single-digit 5s dream of a future where they are totally on their own and seemingly free. But such goals can only be achieved in small and practical increments, for which these individuals may lack the necessary sense of focus and prioritization. With nothing but a wing and a prayer, they may set themselves up as healers, life coaches, or financial advisors without benefit of any credentials. Their imagination is fertile, and they dream of living a certain way and having certain experiences, but have not yet found a way to connect the dots between those dreams and consistent, grounded action in the real world that will allow them to manifest their vision.

## Life-Path Issues

### Health

Above and beyond the standard rules of diet, exercise, and rest that apply to everyone, the health issues single-digit 5s are likely to encounter depend largely on their level of maturity and whether they are working the 5 in the positive or the negative. If they follow healthy guidelines, they will enhance the potential for the genetic strengths they were born with.

Single-digit 5s, whose charts don't contain the complex challenges of three or four digit numbers, may not be as likely to experience the insecurity, self-doubt, or stress that can plague those on other life paths. But it is wise for these 5s to be cautious, to take the usual precautions and do proper stretching before engaging in any athletic endeavors, and to refrain from daredevil stunts or placing too much trust in themselves. Many activities can contribute to a healthy sense of well-being, including martial arts, hiking, rock climbing, mountain biking, acrobatics, and other adventure sports.

Some single-digit 5s may prefer a more sedentary approach to life, finding vicarious adventure and comfortable forms of escape in books, movies, or even high-tech research. However, in every case, disciplined, regular, moderate exercise and a healthy diet will promote physical well-being.  Meditation can be extremely useful for these 5s, not only for its relaxation benefits but because it teaches them to tolerate and even embrace boredom.

### Relationships

Honesty and integrity, which are the hallmarks of any healthy relationship, are especially important for single-digit 5s, who are naturally gifted at shapeshifting, role-playing, and seeing many sides of every situation. A friend of mine on the 5 path once told me he wasn't sure who he was anymore.  “Of course you know who you are," I said to him. "The problem is, there are so many of you." A moving target is a difficult thing for anyone interested in sustaining a long-term personal or professional relationship to hit. If their partners are never sure who they're married to, or if the need for independence compels these 5s to act out or sabotage the relationship, it can be challenging to create a partnership that is both stable and engaging.

### Talents, Work, and Finances

Single-digit 5s can be dexterous, whether they are surgeons, jugglers, or musicians. Because of their wide range of interests, these 5s may possess a number of different skills; once again, focus is key, both in the areas of work and relationships, and a sense of discipline and commitment is important. Money may only be important to them to the degree that it represents independence, as a means of financing their adventures and experiences. They may have invented (or, at least, inspired) the concept of telecommuting and working from home.

Single-digit 5s can be self-starters and do well working for themselves; they thrive on flexibility and generally do well when left to their own devices.  As is true for all the single-digit numbers, there is no one type of occupation that is recommended for 5s; the number, in this case, refers less to a particular occupation than to how an individual might approach and function within that occupation. As long as they have an arena in which to operate, 5s can adapt to - and succeed in - many careers, especially entrepreneurial ventures in which they can be their own boss.

## Some Well-Known 5s

As of 2018, when this 25th Anniversary Edition was published, the oldest 5s were barely out of their teens, which is not enough time to achieve any real recognition. As more 5s accomplish notable things, they may be included in future editions of this book.

## Keys to Fulfilling Your Destiny

If you are a single-digit 5, this chapter can help you fulfill your life purpose by focusing your attention on the key issues and suggesting specific actions that can bring about transformation in the key areas of your life.

### Guidelines and Recommendations

* Create a simple daily schedule to help you develop discipline; allow for variety in your schedule.
* Don't let boredom prevent you from going deep with an interest or activity.
* Monitor your tendency to swing from one extreme to the other and find a balance between the extremes of dependence and independence.

### Useful Questions

1. Consider the following questions:
* What are your top three short-term priorities? Are your long-term priorities any different, or do they mirror your short-term ones?
* How do you deal with periods of boredom? What is boredom for you?
* Do you have a bucket list of things you want to do, places you want to see, and experiences you want to have? If so, what is the first thing on your list that you can take action on?
2. If these questions trigger insights, how could you apply them to your life?
