## Understanding Life Purpose

Those on the single-digit 8 life path are here to fulfill their innate urges to engage others with abundance, empowerment, and prestige, to achieve success, and to use their accomplishments in service to the common good. But because what we’re here to do doesn’t usually happen easily, these 8s are required to overcome blocks and negative tendencies in a number of areas before they can manifest their life purpose.

For this single-digit life path, please review the section on the number 8 in Part Two, which offers a complete and detailed explanation of the 8 and all that it represents. Here, I’ll highlight the key elements in the path and purpose of the single-digit 8.

Like all those who have the 8 prominent in their numerology charts, single-digit 8s need to work through issues related to money, power, authority, control, and recognition. All 8s need to come to terms with fears and negative beliefs—which, in some cases, can cause them to sabotage their efforts to achieve material success, even to the point of turning away from opportunities when they arise—that can undermine their innate urges to create abundance, influence, and respect.

We can make good money while we serve others by doing work we love. While this principle holds true for all of us, it’s especially relevant for 8s, whose path and purpose involve achieving material success—and using that success to empower others and to further a worthy cause—in order to experience a sense of authority, mastery, and empowerment. Whether this plays out in the narrower realm of family, friends, and colleagues or on the world stage is immaterial. The important thing is that 8s own their power and empower others; they can also fulfill their life purpose by helping others to fulfill theirs, empowering and enriching others.

This path presents additional complexities for 17/8s, 26/8s, 35/8s, and 44/8/8s, who may also need to work through issues of insecurity, unworthiness, idealistic standards, self-doubt, and an inability to focus. But for the single-digit 8, all challenges are contained within the parameters of this one number’s attributes. Their need to move toward—and their fear of—influence, authority, power, respect, and even money are up-front and personal. Once these 8s accept their path and see, consciously, how they block themselves, stay stuck, or sabotage their efforts, they’re ready to step up to the plate and move into action for the benefit of not just themselves, but everyone within their sphere of influence.

No matter their profession, 8s feel the need to influence others, whether through writing, teaching, running a business, blogging, political activism, or any number of other available means, their families, friends, colleagues, and the larger community.

These individuals have strategic intelligence when it comes to seeing how the flow of energy works. In other words, single-digit 8s can usually see what needs to be done in order for them to move toward their goals. The challenge is in actually doing it, in taking appropriate action. (Perhaps that’s why my old mentor, whom I’ve named Socrates, once told me, “It’s better to do what needs to be done than not to do it and come up with good reasons why not.”) Thus, while the 8’s drive and ambition for influence, authority, and abundance are out in the open, it is the effort—the doing—within that dynamic that holds the key to fulfilling their life purpose.

### Working 8 in the Positive

With their powerful, strategic minds (whether or not these manifest in the academic arena), these single-digit 8s can bring an unusual degree of concentration and focus to bear on goals and projects at hand. Because they’ve learned from life experience that, in order to reap the harvest, they first have to plant the seeds, they’re committed to—even dedicated to—the task at hand, and they’re recognized and respected for their efforts. They’re motivated not just by personal or family gain, but often by a larger vision of philanthropy as well, with the understanding that with the privileges they accrue comes an obligation to give back. These individuals may distinguish themselves among family and friends or on the world stage.

### Working 8 in the Negative

Passive-aggressive, sending mixed messages, talking in circles, or simply clamming up, these single-digit 8s haven’t yet accepted their innate personal power, which is so much a part of their path. They often feel powerless, as if everyone else has the power, avoiding confrontation, giving up, or overreacting with bursts of anger. They influence others nonetheless by what they do or don’t do, but they continually minimize or remain unaware of the effects of their words and actions on others. Whether they’re rich or poor, or just getting by, they’re still working through a lot of ambivalence about money, either being in conflict with or afraid of money or those who represent it. They bristle at being told what to do, yet they secretly long to be an authority themselves. Unwilling to take the hard road, these stubborn individuals feel like they’re stuck at the bottom of the mountain, even when they possess the vision that will lead them to the top.

## Life-Path Issues

### Health

Like 4s and 2s, single-digit 8s have an innate strength (and stubbornness), which can also manifest as discipline and drive. It’s important for these 8s to start the day off right by setting the pace, preferably with some form of exercise. Whether this takes the form of a four-minute workout, a yoga practice, a trip to the gym, or a two-mile run is less important than doing something to get the day off to a good start (before the demands of the mundane world take over). This means going to bed early enough and getting up early enough to make such a healthy routine possible for these individuals. Because their drive and ambition can put a strain on their bodies and joints, leading to muscle tension, these 8s can benefit from learning how to relax through meditation, massage, or other therapies such as the Alexander Technique or Feldenkrais, in order to create some balance.

### Relationships

Just as the family plays a central role in the lives of 4s, so does the arena of work and career dominate the lives of the single-digit 8. To earn a good living while serving others, to do work that is meaningful and also profitable—these are the driving forces that may keep these individuals working long and hard. While 5s may work for the independence and varied experience, for these 8s, work is its own reward. It’s even better if they are in a position of authority and recognized for it—and if their work benefits others—because they feel most in alignment with their purpose when they’re working toward professional goals. These individuals are not ones to follow the rules, but rather to make them. This trait, while it can lead to difficulties when it comes to one-on-one interactions, can also lead to originality and entrepreneurial success. Single-digit 8s can and do work well with others and may thrive in a climate where their efforts are appreciated and rewarded, but many will find it easier to be their own bosses, calling the shots and setting their own hours. 

Like 4s, single-digit 8s need to choose a partner who is supportive of their ambitions. These 8s do best with a mate who is either self-sufficient and has their own thing going on, is willing to be a stay-at-home partner, or has a light career, but is present enough to keep these busy 8s grounded and to remind them to create some balance between their work and home life. Single-digit 8s (like 4s) can enjoy the family structure, but for them, raising children is another project they can work on and perhaps exert a positive influence over. 

### Talents, Work, and Finances

Just as the different numbers in a numerology chart determine whether a person’s priorities are people, places, or things, so too do they determine whether their focus will be on people, a sense of place (home), or career. For 4s, people may be paramount; for 7s, it’s a feeling of home that is key; for 8s, work may be the primary focus. Thus, the single-digit 8 needs to find a partner who understands and accepts that the business, the career, the success, is what their partner is all about and is willing to support them in that. They also need to choose a partner who is willing to support them, as well as a business partner or associate. These 8s do best with a mate who is either self-sufficient and has their own thing going on, is willing to be a stay-at-home partner, or has a light career, but is present enough to keep these busy 8s grounded and to remind them to create some balance between their work and home life. Single-digit 8s (like 4s) can enjoy the family structure, but for them, raising children is another project they can work on and perhaps exert a positive influence over. 

## Some Well-Known 8s

As of the writing of this 25th Anniversary Edition, which was published in 2018, the oldest single-digit 8s were barely eighteen years old—not really enough time to make their mark. As more single-digit 8s mature and accomplish things of note, their names may be added to future editions of this book.

## Keys to Fulfilling Your Destiny

If you’re on the single-digit 8 life path, this section can help you fulfill your destiny by focusing on the key issues and suggesting specific actions you can take to transform areas of your life. 

### Guidelines and Recommendations

* Get in touch with your power and confidence through a martial art or another practice that allows you to express these qualities constructively.
* Take responsibility for the abundance or lack thereof in your life.
* Examine how you really feel about wealth, power, and having a high profile.
* Count your blessings and appreciate the bounty you currently have in your life; share some of your abundance with others.

### Useful Questions

1. Consider these questions:
* How do you feel about outer authority, and why?
* Do you go by the rules and regulations of society, or do you prefer to go by your own inner authority? Has that been a help or a hindrance in your daily life? 
