## Understanding Life Purpose

Those on the 47/11 life path are here to combine creativity and trust, learning to trust the creative spirit within them and channel their energy to help build a more stable, peaceful world. Their world may expand to the larger community or may, with equal significance, limit itself to a smaller circle of family, friends, or associates.

Using the method outlined in this book for determining birth numbers, we do not add together the final two digits of four-digit birth numbers. However, if we did add them together (1 + 1), we would end up with 47/11/2, adding the potential influence of cooperative energy (2) for 47/11s, along with double creativity (11).

Since our life purpose is an uphill climb, 47/11s face a number of issues and tests related to the chronology of their birth number: First, they need to explore and come to trust their own process of growth over time; second, they need to overcome a fear or expectation of mistrust or betrayal, most often generated by family problems in childhood; third, they need to overcome a profound insecurity that may interfere with their openhearted connections with others.

The central archetype of 47/11s deals with aesthetics, harmony, rhythm, wholeness, and refinement. Trust is a central issue for 47/11s, and the pure life energy they experience is softened by their aesthetic nature, yet strengthened and supported by 4 energy. We can all appreciate beauty, but to create beauty and share it with others requires a period of practice and preparation. Following a step-by-step process is essential for 47/11s.

Like those with other birth numbers, most 47/11s experience difficult or negative aspects of their number as well as a more positive fulfillment of their life purpose. The Law of Process (p. 346) helps 47/11s counteract a tendency toward childlike naïveté and impatience, and the Law of Faith (p. 369) serves as an antidote to an inherent sensitivity to betrayal and issues with self-trust. These are important laws for 47/11s, who sometimes experience debilitating bouts of insecurity aggravated by a lack of self-trust. Sadly and ironically, these refined yet strong individuals often feel like failures before they've even begun.

Once 47/11s have had a chance to tackle the issues of process, trust, and insecurity, they come into their own confidence, beauty, and spirit. As 47/11s open to inspiration, they sense Spirit everywhere and in everyone. Once they trust this Spirit in themselves, they bring light, energy, and magic into the world.

By blending the razor-sharp mind of 7s with the analytical capacities and strength of 4s, then amplifying the volume with two doses of creativity, 47/11s embody a rare kind of potential that has rarely appeared on the planet before. They come at a time when their refinement and energy is most needed, not just to help "save" our world, but to help celebrate it. Following a step-by-step process to reach their goals requires a degree of trust in the process. They need to remember that creativity alone has little force without the time and skill necessary to catalyze it.

Those working 47/11 can build bridges of light through their creative imagination. Their challenge involves expressing their creativity in practical ways while keeping their energy grounded. They are here not to engage in flights of personal fancy, but to bring their creative visions down to Earth to share with others.

With their utopian vision and their gift of foresight, 47/11s can remind us of the beauty that may have escaped our notice, here and now, in the depths of life. One way or another, they serve as a source of light for others, finding their place in the greater order of life.

### Working 47/11 in the Positive

The energy field of these individuals shines with a kind of clear luminosity others sense rather than see with their physical eyes. By their inspiring presence, they remind us of the creative energy and Spirit that works through all of us, whether or not we are yet aware of it. Traveling through different dimensions in imagination, they experience life as a spiritual mystery—a living, tacit realization—and they use their analytical skills, lightning-fast mind, and creative energy to share this uplifted experience of life with others. It may be hard for us to fathom the source of their inspiration or to keep up with their pace. It's as if they have an angel on their shoulder; the more they trust and work with their inner guides and subtle intuitions, the more positive energy and beauty they bring into the world.

### Working 47/11 in the Negative

These individuals live in a world of their own mind, without a sense of grounding or connection. Isolated and embittered, they lose themselves in the "virtual reality" of their creative imagination and live like hermits, even when among people. They prefer computers to people, and solitude to people they mistrust. Brilliant failures, they want a magical world where things happen quickly and easily, and they don't always want to be here on planet Earth. They are very sensitive to feeling betrayed by others, and they experience conflicting pulls between inner and outer reality. Struggling under the weight of unresolved childhood difficulties, with their emotions inhibited, they are vulnerable to addiction to escapist drugs or experiences.

## Life-Path Issues

### Health

Most 47/11s have a very refined, sensitive body and energy field. Like other double 1s, 47/11s are vulnerable in the reproductive area (including lower abdomen and lower back), especially if their creative energy is blocked. The heart and, secondarily, the legs may also be problem areas if 7 or 4 issues are unresolved. Their body is strong but also very sensitive.

When 47/11s are ill, working with their mind (on both conscious and subconscious levels) through positive imaging and creating empowering beliefs can assist dramatically in the healing process.

These individuals definitely benefit from a grounding diet, preferably vegetarian, with little or no dairy products, but the diet mustn't be too light, or they may get so "airy" they float away. The main thing for 47/11s to remember is to trust their own instincts and intuition regarding nutrition and exercise.

Those working 47/11 generally prefer aesthetic kinds of exercises in natural settings that generate a feeling of inner balance and peace, such as hiking in scenic surroundings, actively sculpting, splashing paint on canvas, or doing a variety of different calisthenics to music, incorporating breath, movement, and relaxation. Because of the 4, some kind of routine, even if varied, is important to keep their creative energies clear and open. Demanding exercise that requires coordination of mind, feeling, and attention serves to keep 47/11s physically grounded. They are nourished by forests, deserts, and almost any natural setting.

### Relationships

Many 47/11s marry, have children, and settle into a stable life. Nevertheless, most do not fall into conventional roles; they are too busy being creative, leading people out into nature or into the realm of their own imagination. In any relationship, the process of developing mutual trust through vulnerability and honest communication remains key. They also need to pay attention to being truly present on an emotional level.

Their sexuality may involve creative fantasy, and they generally experience an active drive, including masturbation if their drive outstrips their partner's or if they prefer the safety of their fantasies to the vulnerability of sexual intimacy.

### Talents, Work, and Finances

Those working 47/11 manifest mental creativity at its best. Because of their creative imaginations, they make wonderful writers of fiction, creative advertising copy, or inspiring speeches. Enjoying solitary work, they also make good researchers unless they lack patience or shun routine. They apply their creativity to any form of business, working for the larger family of humanity. They could even become or write about a brilliant inventor, a forest wizard (or computer wizard), a hermit sage, or a healer who works with spirit guides.

Like 29/11s and 38/11s, 47/11s share double creative energy and tend to attract money from many sources, but for them money is a secondary motive; they hardly notice when it comes in or goes out. When their juices are flowing, 47/11s create money the same way they do anything else—apparently by magic.

## Some Well-Known 47/11s

No well-known 47/11s yet exist in our records. The oldest 47/11 in this century was born in 1989. This birth number reflects a very small percentage of the population; in the future, as more 47/11s appear on the planet, more will become well known.

## Keys to Fulfilling Your Destiny

If you are working 47/11, this section can help you manifest your life purpose by focusing your attention on core issues and by generating specific action to transform key areas of your life.

### Guidelines and Recommendations

* Stay grounded; take small, practical steps.
* Exercise daily through dance or martial arts—whatever encourages you to stretch and breathe deeply.
* Find ways to inspire yourself and others through business.
* Remember to supplement analysis with gut feelings.

### Useful Questions

1. Reflect on the following questions:
    * How can I best share my energy with others?
    * Have I supported my creativity by developing my skills?
    * How can I make a strong, heartfelt connection with others?
    * What do I fear about other people and what do I love?
2. If these questions generate any insights, how might you put these insights into practice?
