## Understanding Life Purpose

Those on the 48/12 life path will be coming here to work through issues of creativity, teamwork, and success, cooperating with others and following a step-by-step process to create a more secure and stable world for themselves and others.

Most 48/12s will create this process toward stability within their own circle of friends and family; a few will do it in the larger society. Either way, 48/12s will want their influence felt by others. Because our life purpose poses specific challenges, it may take some time for 48/12s to work through issues of power and process and find the capacity to establish balanced, creative, cooperative relationships with others.

The 48/12 life path is new on the planet; the first individuals working this energy will be born on September 29, 1999. I base this section on archetypes, patterns, and qualities associated with the numbers 4, 8, 1, and 2 rather than on case studies or individuals I've known.

Using the method outlined in this book for determining birth numbers, we do not add together the final two digits of four-digit birth numbers. However, if we did add them together (1 + 2), we would end up with 48/12/3, adding the potential influence of expressive energy (3) for 48/12s.

Those working 48/12 will come to Earth as bearers of light and creativity. Their appearance will signal very practical physical changes and the need for strong leadership and creative cooperation in the times ahead.

Many changes are coming to Earth, including major shifts in technology and in consciousness. Amid the changes, we will need structure and order, which 48/12s are well suited to help create, as the old forms pass away.

### Working 48/12 in the Positive

These individuals will learn the lessons of process through their experience: "When in a hurry, slow down," and "Better to do it right than do it over." In working through their own family issues, they will develop compassion and understanding. Creative troubleshooters, they will find the self-control, the integrated talents, and the drives to support the common good effectively and powerfully. Through creative service, they will find the recognition they desire. Happiest where the action is, in the center of the cyclone, they will serve where they can, in the way that gives them the most joy, often as pioneers of new frontiers.

### Working 48/12 in the Negative

Caught in a maelstrom of change like a rigid tree in a high wind, these individuals will fight to maintain control in a world that feels out of control, reflecting their inner turbulence and frustrated ambition. Their creative energy will demand release, but they will withhold it, afraid of what it might do. They will bend over backward to help other people and then resent it. Stalinlike, they may end up "helping by command," even in their own family. They will resent others' authority until they find the courage to apply their own. Ambitious, they will want everything now, but they won't understand the time or effort it takes to achieve goals and so will end up brilliant failures. When they compromise their integrity, they will meet with short-term rewards but court long-term disaster. When they fall, they will fall hard.

## Life-Path Issues

### Health

In almost every case, the state of health and vitality of 48/12s will depend upon the process they follow: If they learn patience and practice a regular regimen of conscious nutrition and exercise, their exceptionally strong disposition will sustain vigorous health. They will be susceptible to mind-produced stress and corresponding tension if they start to feel overly responsible or concerned with everyone else's life. In the worst case, their immune system will become compromised, with long-term debilitating effects. These symptoms will appear, however, only after long-term stress. Meditation practice can serve as a very direct means of reducing stress and enhancing the health of 48/12s by balancing their tendency toward aggressiveness.

Most 48/12s will tend to put on weight easily, especially if their creative energy is blocked. A low-fat, vegetarian or semivegetarian diet will work well for them in the long run.

Regular, rather than intermittent, exercise will offer a stable process of training very important to 48/12s; otherwise, they may be prone to injuries of knees, ankles, or lower extremities. They may also have congenital (inherited) problems to deal with. Pursuing healing for these problems will serve to expand their sense of compassion for the afflictions of others. Physical training can also form the foundation of a strong body that will take them far in life and teach them deep lessons about the process of accomplishing any goal.

### Relationships

At their best, 48/12s will be strong, loyal, dependable, and supportive, but their life will be based more on reason than romance. It's important that their mate or companions understand this and not hold unrealistic expectations of them. Any long-term relationships will have to be based on mutual support and cooperation. Feelings alone, or even sexual compatibility, may not be enough to satisfy their greater needs and ambitions. They will need a helpmate, not just a lover, or their circumstances may give them plenty of helpmates, and a lover may be all they lack.

Sexuality will be important to 48/12s, not just as a means to satisfy their needs and use their creative energy, but also as a point of connection, providing one of the only settings where they show vulnerability.

### Talents, Work, and Finances

The 4 energy will mean success in business due to a practical nature, as long as 48/12s don't skip any steps; the 8 energy will bring a drive for wealth, power, and recognition that will spur them to their goals. With patience, 48/12s will inevitably achieve all they set out to accomplish. Their creative energy and analytical skills will make it more likely that they'll form independent enterprises of their own. They can build structures, shape materials, or creatively troubleshoot. They enjoy pioneering new frontiers. Some 48/12s may become skilled mechanics, for example; others will found a family or a business empire that supports many people. They will tend to be innovators in many fields, from creative athletes to artist-entrepreneurs.

With the blend of 4, 8, and 12, 48/12s will experience struggles as they move toward their goals, but with persistence, they will see their work come to fruition. If they make a clear commitment, build a solid foundation, and follow their plan step-by-step while staying flexible for contingencies, and if they serve the greater good, they will use money and authority doing what they love, working cooperatively with others.

## Some Well-Known 48/12s

As of this writing, no 48/12s yet exist; the first person working 48/12 energy will be born on September 29, 1999.

## Keys to Fulfilling Your Destiny

If you are working 48/12, this section can help you manifest your life purpose by focusing your attention on core issues and by generating specific action to transform key areas of your life.

### Guidelines and Recommendations

* Remember that self-control is the highest form of personal power.
* Whatever your goal, approach it step-by-step.
* Know when to hold on and when to let go.
* Learn to cooperate with others by treating them as parts of your larger self.

### Useful Questions

1. Reflect on the following questions:
    * What is the next step toward my goals?
    * How can I reach my goals with complete integrity?
    * Do I take care of myself and others in equal balance?
    * In what ways do I express my creative powers?
2. If these questions generate any insights, how might you put these insights into practice?
