## Understanding Life Purpose

11/2s are here to evolve by working through creative partnership issues, learning to cooperate with others in a spirit of harmony, balance, and mutual support, while at the same time honoring their own boundaries and areas of responsibility. But since what we’re here to do doesn't come easily, 11/2s need to overcome certain blocks and negative tendencies in a number of areas before they can fulfill their life purpose.

Like others with the 1 Life Path number, 11/2s need to come to terms with the fact that while each of us is born with different strengths and weaknesses, skills and experience in certain areas of life, we’ve also all come into this world to realize our fundamental equality with others. Thus, they need to learn not to allow insecurity and a need to look good keep them out of the arena of life. Those who are willing to be foolish often learn their lessons and go on to great achievement. Everything is hard until it’s easy.

Security and confidence are earned not from our natural charm, but from developing mastery in some area. As singer/songwriter Cat Stevens once said, “It’s hard to get by just upon a smile.” But those 11/2s who have it can use it—a smile and a bright, positive energy field can take them a long way.

As with all 2s, a key to the quality of life for 11/2s lies in their ability to cooperate with one or more other people. This applies to both business relationships and personal relationships, and because this can be a difficult area for them, this area of challenge is an ongoing source of growth and maturation.

The 11/2 path is not about going it alone, but learning to function cooperatively.  For some with other birth numbers, this happens quite naturally, but for 11/2s, learning to work with others can be more challenging, and involves everyone doing their part for the good of the whole—without keeping score all the time of who is doing more and who is doing less.  It may seem easier for them to say “I’ll do this and you can do that,” and sometimes that approach will work, but the greatest fulfillment comes through a more equal sharing of the load.

The need and the urge to cooperate, and the sometimes accompanying difficulty in doing so, suggests that 11/2s could benefit from and grow through participation in team sports that develop and require the ability to cooperate equally with others. In fact, any kind of partnership—whether it’s working with lab partners in school, or performing in a community theater group, or playing a musical instrument, or being involved in a team project at work—can be of service to the high-energy 11/2.

Positive expressions of the 11/2 do not necessarily come easily or naturally; these individuals often evolve over time and as a result of a patient process of growth and maturation.

### Working 11/2 in the Positive

Those who express 11/2 in the positive derive pleasure from cooperating with others, without being overly concerned about who is contributing the most to any team or group effort. With high levels of energy, they are a welcome addition to any endeavor, providing the enthusiasm necessary to get a project off the ground and the stamina to see it through. While there may be times when they feel driven to prove themselves and win the approval of their peers, these 11/2s know they’ve made a contribution and set a shining example for others to follow. 

### Working 11/2 in the Negative

Sometimes the abundant creative energy of these 11/2s gets channeled inwardly or outwardly in self-destructive or destructive ways. If their energies are blocked—that is, if they are driven by a sense of insecurity that they’re never going to be good enough—they may decide to be “good enough at being bad” until and unless their awareness of the consequences of their actions motivates them to change, often through addictions, isolation, or sometimes illegal activities, creating problems for themselves and others.

## Life-Path Issues

### Health

While the same health issues that relate to the creativity of the 2 and the sensitivity surrounding the energy center of the reproductive organs apply to 11/2s, the 2 also contributes a certain hardiness to the high energy potential of the 1, highlighting the interplay—potentially positive or negative—of the traits of both the 1 and the 2.

Like 4s, 2s tend to take on responsibility when a problem arises, and then they get stressed; that is, they might not be so stressed if they didn’t feel so responsible. With their tendency to feel less than others, their need to prove themselves and rise above it all, and the challenges inherent in shared responsibility, 11/2s often benefit from stress-reducing activities such as swimming, meditation, yoga, tai chi, etc. However, as they engage in such practices, it would be wise not to get caught up in trying to be the best, or pushing themselves beyond the point of enjoyment.

### Relationships

Since the strongest bonds of relationships, whether professional or personal, come not so much from competition as from mutual support and cooperation, it is essential that 11/2s, especially in intimate partnerships, develop an awareness that companionship, loyalty, and mutual support are paramount. These qualities will sustain a relationship far longer than great sex or even great communication. These individuals need to both be supportive of their partners and feel comfortable asking for and receiving support in return.

As is typical of the 2, 11/2s may find giving easier than receiving, but they’re here to develop the ability to do both. If they are always the giver and rarely the receiver, eventually they may come to resent the very person they initially set up to be on the receiving end of that dynamic, without necessarily being conscious that they were the ones who created that situation in the first place, and without taking responsibility for their part in it. 

It is important, however challenging it may be, for 11/2s to value their own needs as highly as the needs of their partners and friends.

### Talents, Work, and Finances

Like all birth numbers, the talents of the 11/2 are developed through diligent, consistent practice—a process of trial and error, involving showing up, putting in the time and effort, and giving ourselves permission to make mistakes. While many of these individuals could achieve mastery and shine brightly if they applied themselves, they also have the capacity to succeed by taking things more gradually.

11/2s can be found in every profession, but they are most fulfilled when their work allows for and even rewards creative expression. If their jobs require them to do routine tasks, sometimes tedious work such as data entry, they will need to have a creative hobby or activity outside of work to provide an outlet for their energies.

Energy attracts energy, and money is a form of energy. To the degree that 11/2s express the positive aspects of their Life Path and feel secure, they will manifest success in their professional endeavors. Because security is more important to them than money, they will work hard to achieve it.

## Some Well-Known 11/2s

As of 2018, when this 25th Anniversary Edition was being prepared, the oldest 11/2s were eighteen years old, which is usually not enough time to achieve the kind of recognition that would merit inclusion here.  Future editions of this book may list the names of 11/2s who have, by that time, achieved notoriety for their accomplishments.

## Keys to Fulfilling Your Destiny

If you are a Life Path 11/2, this section can be helpful by focusing your attention on key issues and suggesting specific actions to take that can transform key areas of your life, thereby putting you on the road to fulfilling your destiny.

### Guidelines and Recommendations

*  Understand the difference between support and slavery; learn when to say yes and how and when to say no.
*  Learn to go with the flow, be comfortable in your own skin, and release responsibility that is not yours to carry.
*  Spend time every day stretching, meditating, and relaxing.
*  Do something creative every day, even if it’s just a simple sketch or a two-line poem.

### Useful Questions

1.  Reflect upon these questions: 
    *   How do I use my creative energy?
    *   Do I find it easier to give to and be of service to others than to receive from them and be served by them? How might I allow the people in my life—family, friends, significant others—to serve me?  Am I willing to ask for this?
    *   When a problem or challenge arises, or when a project is not going well, is my first impulse—even if I was not responsible—to feel responsible? And if so, do I then try to immediately shift responsibility onto someone else?

2.  If these questions have brought up insights, how might you apply them?
