## Understanding Life Purpose

Those on the 16/7 life path are here to work through issues of openness, authenticity, acceptance, and insecurity, learning to trust the creative spirit within themselves and the beauty within others, sharing their ideals and vision in practical ways. Since our life path isn't an easy climb, 16/7s confront specific challenges associated with each digit of their birth number: The creative energy of 1 has to be used for constructive purposes, or it may turn back on itself in destructive ways. This 1 energy often brings a sense of insecurity or a feeling of inferiority. When fueled by the high visions and perfectionistic standards of 6 combined with the trust issues of 7 energy, 16/7s have a deep fear of being shamed or looking foolish and tend to be extremely private people, living "within" themselves, working to create a better world but somewhat disheartened by this one They prefer a great deal of privacy; they also have much to contribute due to their incisive mental clarity and awesome creative imagination.

Despite their outward activities—their work, family, and other interests - a conscious or subconscious longing whispers to them, a drive to find safe harbor that offers a sense of communion with self, with others, with the world, and with the Spirit and inspiration that animate us all.

Although many 34/7s, 43/7s, or 25/7s who are more involved in business or sports or raising children might not relate to the spiritual language or imagery presented here about 7s, most 16/7s will resonate with their higher, inner calling, due to their lofty vision.

Two 16/7s, Vladimir Horowitz and Frédéric Chopin, provided a path to a deeper feeling of life through music; 16/7 Fyodor Dostoyevski offered deeper understanding through the written word. The call to service is key for 16/7s, for without a means to serve others in everyday life, 16/7s might otherwise prefer to leave the Earth's physical plane entirely—sometimes literally, as did 16/7 astronaut Edwin "Buzz" Aldrin. They don't leave like the catatonic, whose awareness turns inward in fear, but like the mystic, whose vision turns inward in hope, love, and high aspiration.

The life path of 16/7s, with their intense and active imagination, tends to be one of the least grounded in the everyday realities of life. What discipline it must have taken for 16/7 Chet Huntley, the high-minded journalist, to immerse himself in "the daily news"!

The challenge for 16/7s, with their high ideals and perfectionistic tendencies, their flowing creative energies and their desire to know more more deeply, is to accept and embrace the everyday world and find within it and within themselves the beauty and perfection they seek.

The 7 influence means that 16/7s long for a more profound connection to life. They achieve this through a primary 7 challenge—learning to trust their inner knower and to trust the world as it unfolds. This may not come easily for 16/7s, but it is what they come here for.

Most 16/7s have significant issues with trusting others and trusting themselves. Few 7s naturally trust themselves, although they may appear to do so to outside observers. They may even state that they do; if they look inside, however, they usually discover that they trust their mind, their knowledge, and the theories and beliefs they have gathered from others.

### Working 16/7 in the Positive

These individuals share their high vision and reveal new possibilities through their creative endeavors as they express truth and beauty. Their intense eyes and sparkling energy and their crisp, refined qualities reveal them as high-minded "angels" in human form. Having found unconditional, but not naive, trust in themselves and others, they see the inherent perfection and larger workings of a loving Spirit even in the most difficult circumstances. Inspired by a higher purpose, they find deep meaning in uplifting and moving others to a more refined, elevated sense of their own lives.

### Working 16/7 in the Negative

Feeling bitter and betrayed, insecure and self-destructive, these individuals can have a hard time being here. They feel disappointed in themselves and in others and frustrated that no one has lived up to their expectations, which are now abandoned or turned sour. They long for a more ideal world, but feeling unable to contribute, they have given up hope. Isolated as hermits, they fear others' criticism, and so withdraw from social contacts. Feeling misunderstood and judged by others, they find escape in drugs or in illusory fantasy realms.

## Life-Path Issues

### Health

If 16/7s experience chronic feelings of betrayal or being misunderstood, the heart and knees become vulnerable. Issues in the abdomen or lungs are also possibilities. Subtle forms of energy work, homeopathy, visualizations, and meditation generally work well for 16/7s. They also benefit from any form of meditation or relaxation practice that lets them release their thoughts rather than get lost in them.

A satisfying, nourishing, but light diet works well for 16/7s, who usually gravitate toward light eating because, to them, quality is more desirable than quantity. They need to experiment to find the optimal diet, learning to trust their instincts even more than research.

Most 16/7s derive special benefit from more refined forms of conscious exercise, such as t'ai chi, yoga, and gentle aerobics, including swimming and walking. Exercise keeps creative energy flowing for 16/7s and helps them learn to trust their body's natural wisdom. They enjoy efficient, innovative exercise or simply walking through nature's beauty.

### Relationships

If working in the negative, 16/7s confront issues of mistrust and insecurity; in such cases, 16/7s find it difficult to express their feelings or show their emotions. Therefore, opening up to genuine intimacy can present a significant challenge. In some cases, their relationships may exist on a fantasy level, as they look for a Dulcinea, a Helen of Troy, a Hercules, or some other idealized figure. Some 16/7s would rather read a book than have a relationship.

When they are working the positive aspects of this life pattern, 16/7s' high vision leads them to openness, trust, and sharing, resulting in "perfect" intimacy. Making love with mindless abandon, letting themselves be seen and known entirely, is both frightening and healing for 16/7s, for whom lovemaking can become a tender and courageous act of accepting the body and earthly life.

### Talents, Work, and Finances

Since 16/7s combine creative energy, high standards, and sharp intellect, they inevitably generate exemplary, beautiful work in any field, whether as writers or tile setters, musicians or astronauts. They gravitate toward work that allows a sense of privacy, that challenges their intellect, and that appeals to their high-minded sense of meaning.

The 6 influence raises the possibility that self-worth issues may interfere with their ability to receive and to create abundance. Once 16/7s begin to value themselves and their work and open themselves to receiving, the world gives back to them in return.

## Some Well-Known 16/7s

Edwin "Buzz" Aldrin
Frédéric Chopin
Fyodor Dostoyevski
Vladimir Horowitz
Chet Huntley
Robert Wagner

## Keys to Fulfilling Your Destiny

If you are working 16/7, this section can help you manifest your life purpose by focusing your attention on core issues and by generating specific action to transform key areas of your life.

### Guidelines and Recommendations

* Come out from hiding behind your polished mask.
* Trust and enjoy the creative process of your life.
* Remember that every mistake is inspired by deeper wisdom.
* Completely accept this moment, and find the perfection in it.

### Useful Questions

1. Reflect on the following questions:
    * What inspires me?
    * In what sense have my difficulties been perfect?
    * Have I let insecurity or perfectionism stop me?
    * How have my expectations influenced my experience?
2. If these questions generate any insights, how might you put these insights into practice?
