## Understanding Life Purpose

Those on the 18/9 life path are here to work through issues of honesty, money, control, and confidence, creatively manifesting and applying their energy and influence in accordance with higher principles of integrity. Many 18/9s can appear expansive, outgoing, even jovial, but there is nothing frivolous about their inner life, which contains shadows of guilt, fear, and insecurity. Given that our life purpose always poses special challenges, 18/9s need to work through deeply rooted, often conflicting attraction and avoidance related to money and power, as well as insecurity issues, on their path to integrity and wisdom.

Because integrity rests at the pinnacle of their life purpose, 18/9s must, whether they prefer it or not, rely on the qualities of high ethics and honesty. They either lead by inspiring example or they mislead and get made into examples. Like others working 9 energy, 18/9s live a life of truth or consequences. Those 18/9s who live in accordance with higher laws create a very good, satisfying life of honest, diligent work, enjoying the rewards that accrue from their labors. Those 18/9s who ignore higher laws soon face the law of cause and effect as life gives them feedback they can't ignore.

Most 18/9s have a powerful mind, attractive charisma, and abundant energy. This combination of the energies, issues, and drives associated with their birth number makes for extremely powerful leaders who can inspire whole countries, move mountains, and build empires - or who can, with ruthless fanaticism, utterly crush those who oppose them. Demands in the 8 arena of wealth and power and the 9 arena of integrity, amplified by the creative energy of 1, can place heavy internal burdens on those 18/9s who haven't yet recognized and made peace with their inner drives.

### Working 18/9 in the Positive

These individuals have a natural depth, charisma, and magnetism. They have an outgoing, charismatic personality that reflects both intelligence and broader wisdom. Their work at home, in their community, or in the world at large reflects their natural leadership by example. Brilliant strategists who know and follow the rules of any game they play, they use their influence and share their abundance to make a difference beyond themselves. With their spiritual power made manifest, they lead by example and by inspiration and provide valuable ideas to others. Life is never boring around them. Hardworking and creative, they subordinate their work to a higher good.

### Working 18/9 in the Negative

Although their outer world may look good from the viewpoint of others, the inner world of these individuals is filled with turmoil, suppressed fear, and a sense of heaviness, laden with the idea of sin and salvation. They long for health and inner peace, but they get caught up in their own opinions and tend to seek absolute power and control. They preach to others, overtly or subtly, about how life should be lived, but they do not follow their own dictates. They resist what arises in their own life and want to control the lives of others. They lose sight of the larger gifts contained in their own challenges.

## Life-Path Issues

### Health

Many 18/9s experience average or even excellent health; others suffer from asthma, bone or nerve problems, including pain in the neck or lower spine, or other symptoms that reflect and result from long-term subconscious fears of abusing power. The suffering they have felt, whether on physical, mental, emotional, or spiritual levels, has sent them deeper and farther on their own journey; in the positive, physical ailments teach 18/9s compassion.

In areas of nutrition and exercise, the principles for 18/9s are very simple and very clear: Learn what is the most healthful, and live that way. Most 18/9s like hard work; when they direct this energy toward any kind of exercise, their life benefits. What kind of exercise they choose is less important than that they do it, because exercise is a simple way to practice alignment with natural law; 18/9s either exercise and feel better or don't exercise and learn the consequences over time.

The same principle applies to nutrition. Rather than following a particular regimen, the key for 18/9s is to eat more of what is enlivening and nutritious and less of what isn't; again, the law of cause and effect operates very clearly for anyone working 9. The more they practice integrity in the area of health by finding out what is healthful and following through with it, the better example 18/9s provide for others to follow.

### Relationships

Although 18/9s can be intense and attentive, intimacy and vulnerability may not come easily for them due to latent insecurity and control issues. Nevertheless, 18/9s can offer charm, energy, and depth to others. A key for them is finding a partner who stands up to them and helps them balance power with sensitivity - someone who understands and accepts them as they are so that they can come to accept and even forgive themselves. Although marrying and raising a family are not usually the center of their life, 18/9s can certainly create a family setting as a backdrop for the larger theater of their life.

With their powerful creative energy and deep-seated need to connect with others, the sexual drive of 18/9s reflects strong physical, emotional, and spiritual needs, whether or not they are aware of them. When they are working in the positive, they can experience a profound connection through their sexual expression.

### Talents, Work, and Finances

The powerful qualities of 18/9s generally take them to positions of leadership. For example, 18/9s are more likely to be attorneys, building contractors, surgeons, or administrators than store clerks. With their dynamic and creative minds, 18/9s are usually one step ahead of most everyone. The significance and potential of 18/9s lies not in what they do, but in how they do it; as long as they reach out to people and live a balanced life of integrity, based on the wisdom of living in accordance with spiritual law, they find deep fulfillment in line with their life path.

Their generally sound financial circumstances reflect their energy and abilities except when they get in their own way with negative beliefs or fears. The important thing for 18/9s is never to strive for money for its own sake, but rather to create money and influence as a natural outcome of useful service. When they are committed to service as their goal, abundance and influence follow naturally due to their creative inspiration and powerful mind.

## Some Well-Known 18/9s

Francis Bacon
Tallulah Bankhead
Julius Boros
Jimmy Carter
Jean Harlow
Richard Harris
Rutherford B. Hayes
Burt Lancaster
Charles Lindbergh
Clare Boothe Luce
Richard Pryor
Mark Spitz
Kurt Vonnegut, Jr.
Lawrence Welk

## Keys to Fulfilling Your Destiny

If you are working 18/9, this section can help you manifest your life purpose by focusing your attention on core issues and by generating specific action to transform key areas of your life.

### Guidelines and Recommendations

* Focus on what is right, not on who is right.
* Don't fear your power; just use it in service of others.
* Ask yourself in what areas of life you serve as a good example and in what areas you do not.
* Apply your creative powers in ways you enjoy.

### Useful Questions

1. Reflect on the following questions:
    * Does my sense of security depend on money and power?
    * Do I apply my creative energy in useful endeavors?
    * Have I had problems with people about money or control?
    * Do I place equal value on integrity and on success?
2. If these questions generate any insights, how might you put these insights into practice?
