## Understanding Life Purpose

Those on the 29/11 life path are here to combine creative energy with higher principles and integrity, finding ways to apply their creativity in service of others, aligned with higher wisdom. Such higher wisdom is revealed by spiritual laws, especially the laws 29/11s are here to live and learn.

Using the method outlined in this book for determining birth numbers, we do not add together the final two digits of four-digit birth numbers. However, if we did add them together (1 + 1), we would end up with 29/11/2, underscoring the double influence of cooperative energy (2) for 29/11s, along with double creativity (11) - creative service.

All 29/11s, along with other double 1s, have tremendous creative potential. But because their primary life purpose represents a kind of mountain to climb, they may not feel as creative as others who aren't working 1 energy and who have few pressing issues or obstacles in that arena. Some 29/11s are still "stuck" working the 2 or 9 issues that precede the 11, which may block their awareness of the abundant energy available to them. Many 29/11s are extremely creative, but they have trouble handling the energy.

Before 29/11s can open the floodgates of their inborn creative potential, they have to find themselves - their center, identity, balance, and boundaries (2 issues). They then need to work through the 9 gauntlet, which includes clearing their dependence on the opinions of others through the Law of Intuition (p. 385), then contacting and living in accordance with spiritual law by taking responsibility for their own life.

Some 29/11s come from a background of child abuse or violence; they may need to fight to get their will back and to find their sense of self-sufficient identity. The 2 influence plays a strong role and requires that 29/11s integrate the sometimes conflicting parts of themselves and overcome the tendency toward resistance and rigidity.

Those working 29/11 also face the challenge of insecurity. With the double creativity of 11 comes double insecurity, which manifests in one of two polarities: Some 29/11s act insecure, nervous, fearful, and underconfident; other 29/11s overcompensate for this internal feeling of inferiority by developing a guarded demeanor that can appear aloof or overconfident. For example, although most 29/11s have very big hearts and a genuine desire to serve helpful causes and make a difference, they can become extremely competitive because they fear losing and its consequences, reflecting their sense of inferiority.

The double 1 with the 9 means that the energy of 29/11s needs to be aligned with a larger will, toward a higher good, in accordance with balance and love. Their creativity tends to be mental rather than emotional, full of meaning but not generally as full of color and feeling as that of 30/3 artists, for example.

Nearly all 29/11s have a large and powerful energy field, whatever their physical size. When inspired or excited, they need less sleep than most people. When they decide to generate something new, inventive, original, or insightful, they have the energy to perform and produce wonders. Their abundant energy is a two-edged sword, however, with great benefits or equally great liabilities. Energy is a tool that serves both creative and destructive forces; for example, electrical energy can light our cities or electrocute a human body. As 29/11s learn the lessons of life, they can apply their tremendous energy in more positive ways. Otherwise, they have a strong tendency toward addictive behaviors to discharge a blocked and painful cauldron of constricted creativity.

Along with all of these challenges, 29/11s display extraordinary potential; when they face their issues with awareness and commitment, they are among the most creative people on the planet. The energy of 2 entails a form of cooperation with others, and 29/11s are born to support humanity in ways both large and small. Whether businesspeople or healers, construction workers or hairdressers, mail clerks or athletes, they have the potential to bring the spark of creativity to life through their work, their hobbies, or their family life. Overall, 29/11s are destined to direct their powerhouse of creative energy to uplift and inspire, to support and heal.

### Working 29/11 in the Positive

These people feel inspired and inspire others as they follow a clear path of service, the underlying motive in all that they do. Creative strategists, supportive friends, and loyal allies, they attract people with their natural charisma and lead by inspiration. In whatever creative field they choose, they offer something special, showing exceptional vitality and endurance to reach their goals. Relaxed and open, these 29/11s get inspiration directly from Spirit.

### Working 29/11 in the Negative

Outwardly insecure and inhibited, or aloof, subdued, and seemingly self-assured, these individuals feel haunted by a sense of inferiority that manifests as competitiveness and a fear of losing. Dominant and opinionated, they seem to have a chip on their shoulder and a need to prove something. Stubborn and resistant, bossy and highly opinionated, they have a hard time letting go. Their illusory inferiority inhibits creative risks that would make their life exciting. Lost, without a real sense of themselves, they alternate between bouts of fitful energy and periods of collapse. Their pent-up energy generates addictive or abusive behaviors, and their lessons about spiritual law (especially about actions and their consequences) often get delivered in a court of law.

## Life-Path Issues

### Health

Individuals working 29/11 often have an unusual appearance due to the influence of powerful energy. Their energy field is often two or three times the average. When inspired or excited about a creative project, 29/11s don't need as much sleep as most people. Their attractiveness stems as much from a glowing energy field as from physical features.

They have a very sensitive reproductive (sexual/creative) area, including the lower abdomen and lower back. Reproductive infections, cysts, pain, lower back pain, constipation, or overweight in 29/11s are very often related to blocked creative energy. Those working 29/11 may suffer more broken bones or unusual diseases than people working other birth numbers. On the other hand, they seem to have exceptional luck, such as walking away unscathed from a bad accident.

Most often, physical, emotional, or sexual problems of 29/11s result from blocked creative energy or problems brought on by specific patterns of abuse. Bodywork greatly benefits 29/11s, whether they are getting it or giving it.

The subconscious minds of 29/11s are open and suggestible; therefore, positive thinking, visualization, and other forms of healing that work with the subconscious and the "energy body," such as acupuncture, acupressure, shiatsu, laying on of hands, bioenergetics, and nutritional therapy, often yield better results than standard drugs and medicine.

In general, 29/11s need a varied diet that includes more dense or grounding foods than many other people—foods such as grains, beans, or occasional fish or poultry. They need to pay attention to the laws of nutrition and exercise in the same way they need to pay attention to any spiritual law. Even more than most of us, 29/11s "become" what they ingest. Their sensitive energy does not tolerate drugs or alcohol well; they do best to avoid them altogether.

Like all double 1s, 29/11s absolutely need more exercise than the average person - not just for fitness reasons but as a means of keeping their energy flowing and grounded. After a period of conditioning, they tolerate exercise well and thrive on it. Exercising daily and finding creative work or hobbies bring a sense of vitality and well-being to 29/11s.

### Relationships

While they often have a sentimental side, 29/11s tend to focus their creative energies in their mind, which inhibits their emotional expression. They tend to repress or intellectualize their feelings. Emotional inhibition, or the apparent absence of emotions, often affects their relationships.

Like 27/9s and 25/7s, 29/11s value and seek relationship with others because they lack a sense of relationship with themselves. Most 29/11s appreciate many friends and contacts and also need someone to be there for them as a source of support, but they sometimes get caught in the double bind of seeking relationship while simultaneously trying to assert their independent nature. Rarely joiners, 29/11s generally live as the individualist who marches to a different drummer.

Many people find 29/11s attractive due to their large and stimulating energy field. However, when feeling insecure and inhibited, 29/11s may experience difficulty with relationships. When their creative juices are flowing into projects or work, they may be too busy being creative to have much time for relationships. Their combination of loyalty, insecurity (needing a sense of connection), and an independent streak makes for complex relationships.

Their sex life can be a paradox: On the one hand, with the amount of energy flowing through them, most 29/11s who aren't blocked have a strong need for regular orgasms unless they are channeling their sexual energy into intense creative projects or hard physical training. On the other hand, their sexuality can sometimes be repressed and inhibited out of insecurity, or they may withhold sexual expression (negative 2 in undercooperation). Overall, the emotional and sexual life of 29/11s reflects how much balance they have created in the rest of their life.

### Talents, Work, and Finances

By virtue of their creativity and presence, all 29/11s have within them the archetype, energy, and creative inspiration of the inventor, the artist, the athlete, and the leader. Natural networkers who enjoy many contacts, 29/11s represent the paradox of strong individualists who are also here to serve the larger good of the community.

In the financial arena, 29/11s attract money because money is a form of energy and "like attracts like." As their energy flows, so flows their abundance. To the degree that 29/11s have stepped forth and expressed their creativity in positive ways, they do very well financially, achieving the security so important to them (2 influence). When not working in the positive, they demonstrate and experience down-in-the-dumps feelings of insecurity and lack.

For 29/11s, money is just a way of keeping tabs on how their energy is flowing, although in some cases the accumulation of money can become a kind of competitive game or a way to gain others' respect and approval - a strong motivation for these individuals. As long as they focus on creative service, 29/11s find that abundance comes naturally.

## Some Well-Known 29/11s

Dame Judith Anderson
Henry Kissinger
Jack Benny
Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart
Jim Brown
Edward R. Murrow
J. Paul Getty
Edgar Allan Poe
Doug Henning
Isaac Bashevis Singer
Bob Hope
Jules Verne
Harry Houdini
Alice Walker

## Keys to Fulfilling Your Destiny

If you are working 29/11, this section can help you manifest your life purpose by focusing your attention on core issues and by generating specific action to transform key areas of your life.

### Guidelines and Recommendations

* Exercise daily; it can change or even save your life.
* If insecurity gets in your way, move through it.
* Practice to become skillful; then rely on your creative energy.
* Take a weekend workshop that attracts you.

### Useful Questions

1. Reflect on the following questions:

    * In what ways do I channel my creative energy, and in what ways do I discharge my blocked energy?
    * How can I make the best use of and benefit from my present situation?
    * How would I most like to serve others?
    * How can I begin to trust my heart over others' opinions?

2. If these questions generate any insights, how might you put these insights into practice?
