## Understanding Life Purpose

Those on the 37/10 life path are here to work through issues of creativity while learning to trust the wise and beautiful spirit in themselves and others, and to apply their inner gifts to create more harmony in the world. These individuals sometimes fulfill their life path in the world at large, as did famous 37/10s Jean Renoir, Aldous Huxley, and Leo Tolstoy, but lesser-known 37/10s can fulfill their destiny equally well within a circle of friends or a smaller community. However, since our life purpose rarely comes easily, 37/10s may take time to open up and trust themselves or the process of their life. They have a sensitive, private disposition and must overcome deeply rooted insecurity.

Using the method outlined in this book for determining birth numbers, we do not add together the final two digits of four-digit birth numbers. However, if we did add them together (1 + 0), we would end up with a 37/10/1, underscoring the potential influence of double creative energy (1) intensified by the inner gifts of sensitivity, expressiveness, strength, and intuition (0).

A sense of trust is important and useful for all of us, but for 37/10s, it becomes the touchstone of life. Due to a lack of self-trust, most 37/10s seek knowledge outside of themselves rather than trusting their intuitive depths.

To the degree that 37/10s subconsciously expect betrayal, they encounter betrayal in others and in the world. Many 37/10s learn useful lessons about the human foibles of spiritual teachers and the importance of trusting their own "inner knower."

When they recognize that they helped create the drama of past betrayals, 37/10s learn to appreciate the roles played by others, for their long-range evolution, whether intentional or not. They may not feel grateful to the specific individuals who broke a trust, but these 37/10s feel gratitude to a larger Spirit for their new awareness as a result of their experience.

As 37/10s apply the Law of Expectations (p. 373) and come to recognize the power of their hidden expectations, they change their assumptions; in doing so, they change their life. They no longer need to encounter betrayal in the external world because they have learned to trust the larger process of their life.

All 37/10s, deep down, are wise and healing spirits; they can express themselves like angels in human form once they align themselves with the higher energy and will that manifest within them. These sensitive, refined individuals need to maintain a balanced, moderate lifestyle that includes inner work, such as contemplation or meditation, to create a safe, peaceful space in which they can feel nourished and refreshed.

As they come to discover their essential connection to the mystery and beauty of existence, they realize that whatever has happened to them, whether they call it good or bad, easy or difficult, pleasurable or painful, has served their highest good and learning.

### Working 37/10 in the Positive

In the positive, 37/10s bring a lightness and energy to those they contact. Trusting themselves and the energy working through them, they walk forward confidently and lightly, with the faith that even if they make a mistake, it's a natural part of their path. They have the courage and openness to express their deepest feelings and communicate their inner needs directly and clearly, creating trust based on understanding. They feel joy in their expanding gifts and creativity, which enables them to do refined work in healing or other fields as they tune into other people and feel a deepening connection with the natural world. This healing may take many forms, such as art, music, drama, or other aesthetic forms of expression.

### Working 37/10 in the Negative

Starting out as naively trusting seekers, these individuals withdraw from others out of insecurity and fear of being embarrassed, so the very betrayal they fear comes true. Not revealing their feelings, they find or perceive that people misunderstand or even mistrust them.

Angry or depressed with themselves, they have disturbing dreams, which reveal the shadow side they fear. They also feel repressed bitterness about relationships, and they struggle with blocked, frustrated creative energies. Physical maladies may force them to confront issues of health.

## Life-Path Issues

### Health

Nearly all 37/10s have a sensitive, refined physical nature with a delicate energy field. The base of the spine and the reproductive organs, along with the solar plexus, can be sensitive areas due to the sexual/creative energy of 37/10s. Their heart and knees may be sensitive as well. Whether male or female, these individuals need to be especially conscious of taking responsible precautions to avoid unwanted pregnancy, since they are more likely than many others to have problems in this area.

As it does with other natural but reluctant or insecure healers, life may deliver physical problems so that 37/10s can learn about a variety of healing modalities. Such 37/10s often experience this learning as a refresher course, because their subconscious is already well versed in energetic healing arts.

To open and support their intuitive capacities and sensitivities, 37/10s benefit from a light, primarily vegetarian diet, although they may choose to add occasional fish or poultry in order to stay grounded. Otherwise, they thrive on a simple, pleasurable diet based on sound health principles.

When insecurity blocks their creativity, 37/10s can fall into self-destructive patterns, such as abuse of drugs, food, or sex. With their sensitivities, they don't tolerate abuse of anything very well or very long.

Those working 37/10 need regular, moderate exercise or some form of refined physical training, such as dance, t'ai chi, yoga, or swimming, to keep energy channels open and flowing. They need to trust that whatever they enjoy is perfect for them. Again, as with others working 1, the main function of exercise is to ground their energy so that it doesn't demand release through less constructive channels, such as addictive behavior.

### Relationships

Like most people working 7 in their birth number, 37/10s tend to trust their mind over their heart, because the heart and feelings are associated with pain and mistrust due to perceived betrayals.

Potentially, 37/10s have a deep connection to the love and wisdom of their heart, but to actualize this connection they have to stop hiding inside their mind's defenses and learn to trust their feelings, even if these feelings sometimes involve pain.

Many 37/10s would rather listen than talk because they're afraid they might say the wrong thing. They prefer privacy to company, yet they feel they need to bond with someone. Because of insecurity, however, 37/10s often expect a great deal of love without giving much back, and they may tend to rely on other people for strength. They often depend on a mate to make them feel complete or a job to fulfill them, relying on outside influences. In this way, they resemble 28/10s, but while 28/10s have more issues with control, 37/10s are looking for substitute parents to take care of them, because they often feel unsure about taking care of themselves. They have mixed feelings about relationships with others; this ambivalence reflects their uncertain relationship with themselves.

Sexuality and relationship depend on openness and trust to flourish. The sexual life of 37/10s feels more fulfilling when it is tied to transcending the body rather than just physical release. Many 37/10s may find that a sexuality workshop aimed at emotional sharing or even the practice of tantra yoga, a form of deep communion through sexual energy in relationship, may open new doors to intimacy and meaning.

Once 37/10s open enough to express their feelings and needs and learn to trust their partner, their relationships flourish.

### Talents, Work, and Finances

This is a sensitive, highly artistic pattern; 37/10s work with and are inspired by beauty and nature. Nearly all 37/10s find emotional healing and connection through music. They also display great ability to express themselves through art, acting, poetry, dancing, photography, design, and any other form of creative expression, including teaching.

These individuals are here to create higher forms of healing, beauty, and inspiration. This does not mean that all 37/10s are involved in healing professions, fine arts, or spiritual occupations. Higher forms of healing include a very broad spectrum of ways to balance the body, inspire the emotions, or clarify the mind - all of which "heal" various states of imbalance. For example, designing a serene work environment is one form of healing; artists, musicians, or homemakers who create lovely and comfortable household settings all bring more beauty into the world; teachers, friends, and colleagues can help to inspire and uplift others.

Money doesn't generally play a central role in the lives of 37/10s, except as a means of insulation, of not having to depend upon someone else. When 37/10s begin to trust their abilities and manifest them in the world, money will appear in their life almost by magic.

## Some Well-Known 37/10s

* Napoleon Bonaparte
* Charlie Chaplin
* Aldous Huxley
* Earvin (Magic) Johnson
* Paul Klee
* Michelle Pfeiffer
* Robert Redford
* Jean Renoir
* O. J. Simpson
* Bruce Springsteen
* Leo Tolstoy

## Keys to Fulfilling Your Destiny

If you are working 37/10, this section can help you manifest your life purpose by focusing your attention on core issues and by generating specific action to transform key areas of your life.

### Guidelines and Recommendations

* Trust your feelings and your inner gifts of sensitivity, strength, expressiveness, and intuition.
* Develop the courage to express your feelings.
* When you meet fear, don't back down.
* Work in a garden; read a book about angels.

### Useful Questions

1. Reflect on the following questions:
    * When it comes to my body, do I trust my instincts and intuition over outside experts or theories?
    * Can I express my deepest feelings? If not, why not?
    * How can I best use my creative energy to bring more beauty into the world?
    * When I don't feel trusting, how can I work this through?
