## Understanding Life Purpose

Those on the 44/8 life path are here to work through issues of money, control, responsibility, and stable foundations, following a systematic process to achieve material success - not for its own sake, but in support of other people or causes. Because our life path is strewn with obstacles that test and strengthen us, before 44/8s can manifest their destiny in the positive, they have to overcome negative tendencies, such as a stubborn reluctance to follow through with a gradual, step-by-step process. When mature, 44/8s can show heroic persistence; short of that, however, they want to make success happen right now or give up ("Just forget the whole thing"). They don't usually feel as discouraged or disheartened as 3s; instead, 44/8s often feel impatient, angry, and frustrated, especially if they haven't yet grasped the absolute necessity of gradual progress over time, broken down into small, manageable steps, as stated in the Law of Process (p. 346).

Whatever else 44/8s do in their life, they need to spend some time on introspection, so they can come to analyze, understand, and accept, rather than resist, the necessary stepping-stones to their destiny.

As with others who have double digits in their birth numbers, such as 22/4s and 33/6s, what 44/8s lack in numerical variety, they make up for in focus and intensity. Take the usual stability, strength, and business acumen of 4s and double it; blend the potential qualities of strength and stubbornness, fortitude and rigidity, analytical brilliance and confusion, commitment and instability, ambition and impatience; combine that blend with the drive of 8s for abundance, power, and recognition, and you understand why 44/8s face such a challenge and such an opportunity. As with any life path, the quality of life and the fulfillment of their destiny depend upon whether 44/8s are working the 4 and 8 in the positive.

As with every birth number that has twin digits on the left, the first number represents internal challenges - in this case the challenge of inner stability. Individuals working 44/8 need a willingness to introspect and to develop internal processes to strengthen and support the self, such as some form of self-analysis, but they need to avoid getting so obsessed with this process that they go into overanalysis and resultant confusion. As in the case of 2s, balance is key.

The second 4 represents the need for 44/8s to establish an outer foundation within their family - to work out their issues with their parents and their children, if any. Working issues out may mean expressing feelings, positive and negative; it may mean asking forgiveness or offering it; or it may mean finding a common point of understanding or simply agreeing to disagree. In any case, it means communicating and working through issues that might otherwise get swept under the rug.

Most 44/8s share strong concerns and drives in the area of security and stability. Money in the bank, food in the refrigerator, a car in the garage, and clothing in the closet are all essential for 44/8s. Whereas the security of having enough is key for 4s, the issues of 8s involve having more than "enough." As a result, 44/8s have intelligence, strength, drive, ambition, and desire in abundance.

Given the inherent challenges of their life path, most 44/8s experience issues with family, with security, and, overall, with process. Their willingness to live in alignment with the Law of Process (p. 346) makes or breaks them. In general 44/8s can reach their goals in relationships business, health, or spirituality and fulfill their life purpose by following a methodical, practical, step-by-step path. If they skip one step, this usually means they slide back down the mountain and have to start over.

The Law of Patterns (p. 349) can save 44/8s a lot of time by reminding them how to break repetitive patterns of failure or incompletion. If 44/8s ignore or disregard these laws, they learn some hard lessons. Theirs is not a subtle life path; sometimes life uses high drama to get their attention.

Confusion can plague 44/8s whenever they face an important decision because they tend to analyze everything to death and then feel disoriented. They often behave very compulsively or impulsively in spending, eating, or other areas of life. Like 2s, they need to find a balance between their mind and their emotions.

### Working 44/8 in the Positive

With the fortitude, perseverance, and analytical skills to take the necessary steps from where they are to where they want to go, no goal is beyond the reach of these individuals. Their mind approaches any task as a series of component parts, breaking down big goals into small steps. Their health and vitality are exceptional; they take good care of themselves and show necessary caution and care. Loyal and dependable, they form stable and lasting relationships, and they enjoy a sense of family and community with society at large. Powerful and practical, with commonsense business acumen and a drive for success, they allow their strength, their ability to follow a process, and their flexibility to take them to a life of abundance, not just for themselves, but for a larger cause.

### Working 44/8 in the Negative

These individuals usually manage to maintain control, but they tend to be on the hysterical side. Confused and stressed, when they reach the end of their rope, they may "let go" in the form of nervous breakdowns. With their stubborn, blind faith in themselves, they seem to repeat the same mistakes again and again. Their relationships are a source of pain and frustration because they constantly engage in power struggles and arguments. They may have made a lot of money and then lost it; they search for a sense of stability but cannot make a commitment to anything or anyone. They desire success without being willing to take the steps to achieve it. They feel responsible for too much, yet they try to avoid responsibility for fear they'll fail.

## Life-Path Issues

### Health

Those working 44/8 do not let anyone tell them how to eat or exercise, or how to do anything else. Nevertheless, a low-fat, efficient, balanced diet is especially important for them, because, with the double 4 energy, unless they pursue regular exercise, they tend to put on weight, not just externally but in their internal organs.

Nearly all 44/8s thrive on a regular exercise regimen that emphasizes flexibility, relaxation, balance, and meditation to counteract tendencies toward rigidity, tension, and resistance. Practicing aikido or t'ai chi, which model the Law of Flexibility (p. 324), can benefit 44/8s. These arts teach nonresistance - making use of whatever one faces - and they also teach blending, softness, and balance; in addition, both of these disciplines require a patient process to reach mastery. Once 44/8s master this process, they can then apply it to anything else in daily life.

### Relationships

Most 44/8s bring the powerful qualities of loyalty, stability, steadfastness, and support to their relationships. In the negative, they may get caught in power struggles as already mentioned and may lack stability if they haven't yet learned the lessons of their life path. When working in the positive, however, 44/8s can maintain a healthy long-term relationship; family and children become priorities in their life, although work remains central.

Although 44/8s certainly possess an emotional life, they are not as strongly centered in the emotions as people working other birth numbers. Their partners may have to appreciate them for their loyalty, strength, and vitality rather than for their sensitivity. It can be hard to get through to them, so subtle hints don't work well.

The approach of 44/8s to sexuality may be lusty, practical, and enthusiastic unless they are dealing with issues of childhood sexual abuse that need to be confronted. They are generally most compatible with someone whose sensitivity balances their strength, but in such a case, it's important that both they and their partner appreciate their different styles.

### Talents, Work, and Finances

Those working 44/8 often lead or control a business or other enterprise, or they may provide the analytical brains behind the operation. Their success depends almost entirely on whether or not they're willing to go through the gradual or sometimes lengthy process to achieve their goals. In general, 44/8s serve as insightful analysts in the fields of business, psychotherapy, and government intelligence, to name a few.

Financial security is a prime motivator for 44/8s, but whether they gather "nest eggs" depends upon the quality of the nest they build. In other words, they achieve great success in the material realm if they develop their foundation, do their homework and preparation, and pay their dues. Achieving financial stability doesn't usually come easily for 44/8s, but they possess all of the qualities necessary to achieve success. The key for them is to transcend the issue by using their success to serve the community that they have come to perceive as their larger family.

## Some Well-Known 44/8s

No well-known 44/8s appear in our records, probably because this birth number appears far less often in the current population and because the first 44/8s were born in 1959 and are still relatively young.

## Keys to Fulfilling Your Destiny

If you are working 44/8, this section can help you manifest your life purpose by focusing your attention on core issues and by generating specific action to transform key areas of your life.

### Guidelines and Recommendations

* When exercising, combine power and strength with flexibility and flow.
* Clarify the sequential steps from here to your goals, then follow through.
* Talk with your parents, living or not, about how you feel.
* Your greatest power may come from flowing with the forces that confront you.

### Useful Questions

1. Reflect on the following questions:
    * How can I combine power with flexibility?
    * Do my personal goals serve the common good?
    * Have I sometimes acted too stubborn for my own good?
    * Do I apply both logic and intuition to reach a decision?
2. If these questions generate any insights, how might you put these insights into practice?
