## Understanding Life Purpose

Those on the 45/9 life path are here to work through issues of stability, independence, and integrity as they learn to apply a process of discipline over time to experience freedom, and to align their life with higher principles and heartfelt wisdom. Because our life purpose holds special challenges, those working 45/9 may face dramatic life tests to get their attention, help them overcome their negative tendencies, and bring them to maturity. Life will provide a curriculum that teaches 45/9s the discipline and focus that lead to inner and outer freedom, and the necessity of following a stable step-by-step process to reach their goals. Above all, these individuals get clear feedback about the wisdom of living in alignment with the laws of Spirit.

Physically strong and mentally quick, with a desire for adventure and excitement, 45/9s often deal with life-and-death issues. Depending upon how positively they work their energies, these individuals may have to pass through disillusion and difficulty to reach compassion and wisdom. During their lifetime, most 45/9s experience both the up side and the underbelly of life.

The central life challenge for 45/9s entails moving attention from their busy, visual mind to their peaceful inner core, where they can contact their deep intuitive wisdom. At this place of wisdom, all spiritual laws are revealed through the feeling dimension in the moment they need them. When 45/9s have made contact with their inner knower, they can ask an internal question, feel their heart, and know.

Even when 45/9s have access to higher laws, they still face the challenge of putting their knowledge into action, thus fulfilling their destiny. Integrity does not come easily for any 9s because our life purpose holds our greatest challenge. Those working 45/9 also face challenges stemming from the issues of 4, such as stability and process and the issues of 5, such as freedom and discipline. The energies of 4 and 5 need to come to maturity or they continue to pull 45/9s out of alignment with higher laws-out of integrity.

Although most 45/9s aren't necessarily oriented toward inner processing, much happens in their external world that propels them to deeper understanding. Their life may look dramatic at times, but for the most part, they are best served by "chopping wood and carrying water," as the Zen masters practice. They may desire extraordinary experiences and quick results, but they are here to learn about being ordinary, direct, and stable; for them, achievement happens only through a gradual step-by-step process.

Those working 45/9 tend to adore the drama and excitement of heroics, but they are here to lead, teach, or inspire others in everyday ways; for example, most of us "know" how to eat well and the importance of daily exercise, but we sometimes find it difficult to act on what we know. Those working 45/9 energy are here to inspire people by acting on what they know in everyday life even if that entails a long, gradual process.

Before 45/9s can fully exemplify higher laws in everyday life, they have to confront issues related to the energies of 4 and 5. The 4 calls for grounding and putting down roots, while 5 calls for mobility and exploring options. These energies can either conflict with each other, pulling in opposite directions, or, when integrated, balance and complement each other.

In the positive, 4 brings stability, security, and a willingness to follow a clear process toward a goal; in the negative, 4 leads to confusion and instability. An individual working 4 in the negative wants everything now or gets frozen on one step of the process. Also associated with 4 is a tendency toward tunnel vision, so 45/9s may end up repeating some tough lessons, such as divorce or health problems or financial crises, until life makes its point.

Less sensitive to other people's opinions than 27/9s or 36/9s, those working 45/9 nevertheless have a tenuous sense of identity and often define themselves in terms of the roles they play. Most 4s want to be somebody without going through a process of becoming, of mastering the necessary preparation. The Law of Process (p. 346) serves them well, in addition to the reminder that we are more than the roles we play.

In the positive, 5 energy leads 45/9s to feel a constant sense of inner freedom, no matter what the circumstances, with the discipline and focus to generate mobility and a sense of outer freedom as well. In the negative, 5 can make 45/9s feel trapped, a prisoner of circumstance, too scattered to make any significant headway in life.

As 45/9s bring the stable energies of 4 into maturity, they enjoy the fruits of a clear analytical ability, strength, sociability, diligence, and a mastery of process. When 45/9s bring the dynamic energies of 5 into maturity, they enjoy the fruits of adventurous qualities, a quick mind, versatility, and authority.

Many 45/9s need to get grounded and stay put long enough to harvest the fruits of their labors. They may want to travel and just "touch down" in different locations, getting a valuable overview of life but missing the depth that brings wisdom. Eventually they realize that the real work, adventure, and treasure lies here, now, within.

The Law of Discipline (p. 354) addresses potential tendencies of 45/9s to feel scattered and diffuse their efforts. The combined energies of 5 and 9 create drives that send 45/9s seeking inner freedom, not mere independence or self-indulgence, due to their intuitive if sometimes unconscious connection to higher laws. No matter what they do, no matter how intelligent, wealthy, successful, or attractive they are, 45/9s do not find peace or freedom until they contact higher laws, experience them, and live them.

The combination of 4 and 9 creates drives that send 45/9s seeking inner stability, not merely staying put in one location, but feeling like the Rock of Gibraltar inside. Those 45/9s who have achieved this balance demonstrate sterling qualities, such as loyalty, responsibility, and strength.

Those working 45/9 are here for more than understanding; they come for wisdom, which emerges as they begin to live what they understand; then 45/9s can teach others through their example, without words. Whether stable and practical or ungrounded dreamers, 45/9s aspire at levels deeper than their conscious awareness to the wisdom or experience that sets them free. Intentionally or not, 45/9s draw to themselves demands and disciplines as a means to discover and embody higher wisdom.

### Working 45/9 in the Positive

These individuals provide an inspiring example of how to follow a careful, disciplined process to reach goals and achieve a sense of inner freedom. Strong, witty, and charismatic, they attract many friends, admirers, and students; whether or not they call themselves teachers, they teach by example, demonstrating true wisdom and inner freedom. Bound by no conventional rules but aligned with higher laws, their life may appear ordinary from the outside, but their influence, even in the midst of ordinary activities, has an extraordinary quality that inspires others around them.

### Working 45/9 in the Negative

These individuals display strength and cleverness, but they don't know what to do with either. Scattered, undisciplined, disoriented, and sometimes overwhelmed by a sense that they are missing something important, they hide behind the roles they play, seeking security there. They don't live what they profess, deceiving themselves as well as others. Ungrounded and irresponsible, they may feel "free" and "liberated," but they never really challenge or test their own views. Because of this, they face hard lessons about reality.

## Life-Path Issues

### Health

The health of 45/9s depends almost entirely on whether they are working their life issues in the positive or negative. In the negative, they may have to deal with broken bones, head injuries, or illnesses that affect the brain or nervous system. In the positive, they enjoy robust health. Stubborn 45/9s encounter conditions that force them to reassess their life and make a careful, step-by-step process of recovery.

The foundation of their sense of stability and freedom depends upon a strong, healthy body. Because of hurdles associated with 9 energy, 45/9s may ignore the necessity of sound nutrition and exercise and suffer the consequences. Sooner or later, 45/9s start the process of adapting themselves to a healthier lifestyle. The challenge is great; most 45/9s prefer heroic efforts to long, drawn-out processes.

In due time, as a matter of course, 45/9s begin to align their diet and exercise routines as simple, everyday disciplines. However, depending upon their lifestyle and background, they may prefer varied, exciting, or challenging exercises, such as martial arts, water sports, and mountain climbing.

### Relationships

Depending on their life experience and whether they are working in the positive or the negative, 45/9s may lack sensitivity and compassion or they may have cultivated these qualities through facing their own difficulties.

Their relationships and emotional lives are wild cards, however, because of the drive toward stability and family issues of 4 along with the drive toward independence of 5. Most 45/9s, in any case, learn much from their relationship and their family of origin. In family relationships, most 45/9s meet with specific issues, such as leaving home early due to an independent streak or staying at home too long due to dependent tendencies. Most have issues to work out with parents or siblings. In any case, 45/9s are likely to experience their circle of friends or the world at large as extended family.

Part of the emotional maturation of 45/9s entails accepting their feelings and following a process to develop deeper, more intimate relationships. Relationship may well form a key part of the foundation from which they can realize a higher and deeper freedom. Since 45/9s gravitate to new ways of being, living, and doing as they search for the larger picture of life, it's unlikely for them to form totally conventional relationships, although they need to form responsible ones.

Beyond biological drives, 45/9s desire sexual relationships that have an element of adventure or variety, although they also seek a deeper sense of connection. Sexuality can become a joyous part of 45/9s' life if practiced not for its own sake but within the perspective of higher wisdom.

### Talents, Work, and Finances

The sharp analytical abilities and quick minds of 45/9s help them create needed changes in fields such as ecology, psychology, personal growth, and other areas where leadership is needed. Or they may appear conventional and find work that challenges their skills in the changing world of business. As long as they prepare well and develop a solid foundation, their drive for freedom for themselves and others eventually lead them to success.

From a realistic financial base, 45/9s can create the security from which to expand. Money may not be the center of their life, but it provides more options, a sense of security, and the freedom they need.

It's important for 45/9s to keep their finances in very good order as a way of staying practical and grounded.

## Some Well-Known 45/9s

No well-known 45/9s yet exist in our records. This birth number appears far less frequently than many others; more 45/9s are likely to become well known in the coming decades.

## Keys to Fulfilling Your Destiny

If you are working 45/9, this section can help you manifest your life purpose by focusing your attention on core issues and by generating specific action to transform key areas of your life.

### Guidelines and Recommendations

* Remember to travel the road to freedom step-by-step.
* Respect your own opinions, and let others respect theirs.
* Base your actions on integrity and inspiration.
* Find ways to help liberate others, and you will liberate yourself in the process.

### Useful Questions

1. Reflect on the following questions:
    * Upon what principles do I found my life?
    * Have I established a solid, stable foundation?
    * Can I apply focus and discipline in my life in order to achieve inner freedom and independence?
    * What steps can I take to become an inspiring example of integrity?
2. If these questions generate any insights, how might you put these insights into practice?
