## Understanding Life Purpose

Those on the single-digit 7 life path are here to learn to trust in the light within themselves and others, to open themselves up and share their inner realities with the world. For this single-digit life path, please review the section in Part Two that describes in detail the number 7 and all that it represents. Here, I will highlight the key elements of the 7's life path and purpose. 

Single-digit 7s have a sharp, intuitive intellect that enables them to read between the lines (to see the hidden meaning). Introspective, often private, these 7s may be spiritual or scientific seekers. Because of innate trust issues, these individuals may not always put all of their cards on the table (reveal what they are thinking or planning) and thus may encounter misunderstandings—which they may interpret as betrayals—in both their personal and professional lives.

Since our life purpose does not always unfold easily—and real life does not always present us with people who are consistently trustworthy or reliable—the paranoia that these 7s experience at times can be valid. (As the clever saying goes, “Just because I'm paranoid doesn’t mean that people aren’t out to get me.”)

Ironically, some single-digit 7s can be overly open in relationships at first, sharing their hearts, only to feel betrayed later. Thus, like the 2s who work to find a balance between over-cooperating and under-cooperating, like the 4s who work to find a balance between taking on too much responsibility and not enough, like the 5s who work to find a balance between a humiliating dependency and total independence, the single-digit 7s need to develop the capacity to discern—not whether to trust someone completely or distrust them consistently but how much trust is warranted in any given situation. Mature 7s get agreements in writing, thus transforming assumptions into verifiable understandings.

Because single-digit 7s do not always trust their own independent discernment, they often read extensively or follow the advice of experts in diet, exercise, and other self-improvement systems. It can take time for them to connect with and trust their own inner knowing—their own sense of discrimination about what is best for them.

When single-digit 7s do trust their own intuition, ideas, and instincts—and on a metaphysical level, trust that there is a destiny at work, operating through them (and everyone else)—they eventually realize that every challenge they encounter can ultimately serve their highest good and learning. These individuals can evolve from feeling separate and distrustful to a deep knowing of the pervasive presence of high energy, love, and trust. Resonating with certain indigenous cultures and peoples, they come to experience this communion as existing among all of nature’s creatures and spirits. The eagle, the stream, the wind in the trees—all speak to them.

Even as single-digit 7s continue to detach and evolve, they open to the love, wisdom, and goodness that reside within each person. This doesn’t mean they naively allow themselves to be taken advantage of by others. It means they allow their light to shine in all their relationships, even becoming insightful mentors. As they look deeply into their own minds and hearts, they come to know, sometimes to their own surprise, the hearts of others as well. Having connected with their own inner wisdom, these 7s frequently fall in love.

### Working 7 in the Positive

These evolved individuals, who embody the positive aspects of the single-digit 7, bring fresh insights to virtually any subject, thanks to their sharp intellect. Having swung between over-trusting and under-trusting in their younger years, they have found a realistic balance. Their trust must be earned, and agreements need to be clear (and in writing). They have learned to trust reliable sources of information in the world but always measure what they read and hear against their own inner knowing—their own judgment and discrimination. Earlier tendencies toward paranoia have evolved into a discerning wisdom and a healthy capacity for critical thinking. Their daily lives are balanced between teamwork and solitude. Ultimately, they develop (whether religious or secular) belief systems based on a deep, abiding trust in the unfolding of life itself; these individuals live by the adage “Trust in God, but tie your camel to a post.” To the degree that the 7s have developed this kind of trust—faith—in a higher order, they are able to be in both the spiritual and material worlds, thriving in both.

### Working 7 in the Negative

Feeling very vulnerable to the opinions of others, these single-digit 7s close themselves off from the advice and opinions of others, not trusting their own inner resources, and turn instead to whatever theories they have read about or heard. This can create a rigidity as the pendulum swings from rejecting all outside input to embracing theories while rejecting their own judgment. Highly self-protective and private, sometimes to the point of paranoia, these 7s spend much of their time in seclusion—away from those they do not trust. Their sharp intellect develops a cynical edge, one that does not believe in the goodness of humanity. They remember when they were betrayed by others and are always on the lookout for the next betrayal. Such experiences seem to justify their keeping people at a distance and preferring solitude to the company of others. Even when they seem to enjoy socializing, they may rarely share their inner realities with others for fear of being humiliated. Or they may swing to the other extreme, lacking boundaries, and share everything that comes to mind, only to feel later that they have been hurt, betrayed, or misunderstood.

## Life-Path Issues
### Health

Most single-digit 7s need a special place and time each day to withdraw and recharge. Because they have a deep connection with the natural world, they benefit from and enjoy spending time each day in a garden, a park, or, on vacations, in the wilderness. There are no particular health issues for these individuals—except that they tend to think about activities like exercise rather than engage in them. But when a call comes to engage in some active physical pursuit such as hiking in the wilderness, skiing, dancing at a club, or participating in a sport or martial art, such a practice can provide these 7s with a means of developing deeper levels of self-trust—not just trusting their minds or their evolving skills and talents but their bodies and intuition as well. If and when they do become ill, like all of us do at times, they need to avoid experiencing their illness as a betrayal by the body, seeing it instead as a perfect way to learn to appreciate good health and to trust in the healing process.

### Relationships

For single-digit 7s, being in a partnership offers the potential for companionship and a sense of completion, harmony, and balance in their lives. However, this companionship requires great intimacy, openness, trust, and vulnerability with the beloved—and thus, the possibility of betrayal. Therefore, many single-digit 7s have ambivalent feelings about intimate relationships: They long for such closeness, yet they may fear it. They are drawn to companionship but may act cool or aloof, needing to have their own space to retreat to, as well. A room, a corner, even a comfortable chair—a place of their own—is not a luxury but a necessity. If these 7s set up rigid boundaries, relationships can become a negotiating arena. But once they do open themselves to the possibility of a loving, trusting relationship, they can come out of their shells and experience a sharing of their wholeness with another, rather than seeking completion through another.

### Talents, Work, and Finances

The energy of the single-digit 7s flows inward. Although they can be very successful in the world, even when they are working to create outer success, their focus and attention are drawn to inner processes. Whether they are fully conscious of it or not, a career is part of a larger and deeper quest to understand themselves and the inner workings of the world. Work for these 7s is simply a means to earn money so that they can pursue other interests; their real work is going on within. In business dealings, they are wise to avoid making even verbal agreements with friends; contracts create a foundation of trust and understanding. Because of the need to spend time alone and because they accomplish more when they are alone, these 7s are most fulfilled in careers that allow them to be by themselves and to concentrate, whether they are exploring the far reaches of outer space, balancing the books in an office, or doing scientific research.

## Some Well-Known 7s

As of 2018, when the twenty-fifth anniversary edition of this book was published, the oldest single-digit 7s were less than eighteen years old, hardly enough time to make their mark on the world. Perhaps in future editions, as more single-digit 7s achieve notoriety for their accomplishments, they will be listed here. 

## Keys to Fulfilling Your Destiny

If you are a 7 Life Path, this section can be helpful to you by focusing your attention on your primary issues and suggesting specific actions to take that can transform key areas of your life, thus helping you to fulfill your life's purpose. 

### Guidelines and Recommendations

* When you have a question, write it down, then allow your wiser self to write an answer. 
* Share not just from your head but from your heart, and make clear agreements with others. 
* Honor your need for privacy, but take small risks in revealing your feelings.
* Trust your own intuition and instincts; you are the expert on your body and your life. 

### Useful Questions

1.  Consider these questions: 
* When making a decision, ask yourself, “If I knew the answer, what would it be?” 
