## Understanding Life Purpose

Nine Life Paths are here to learn about integrity (walking their talk), to live and teach by example, to connect to others through the wisdom of their life experiences, and to share the intuitive wisdom of their hearts.

For this single-digit Life Path, please review again the comprehensive and detailed section in Part Two that describes the number 9 and all that it represents. Here, I will be highlighting key elements of the single-digit 9's Life Path and purpose.

Because what we are here to do is rarely easy to accomplish, single-digit 9s need to learn from the setbacks caused by straying from integrity and not paying attention to how life works in order to fulfill their purpose in life. These individuals can seem clueless, appearing to not grasp the consequences of their actions, before they evolve into living examples of wisdom; but those very consequences eventually bring them to the higher wisdom they are here to express. 

Whatever persona they embody, single-digit 9s have a depth of purpose—as if they've lived many lifetimes as monks or nuns in one tradition or another, carrying the weight and wisdom of much contemplation. Metaphysically speaking, they can be described as old souls. Yet whether or not they are old souls, they're here in this lifetime to relearn and rediscover those deeper truths. Single-digit 9s, as opposed to the other numbers containing the 9 (19/10, 18/9, 39/12, 27/9, 36/9, and 45/9) who have other issues and limitations vying for their attention, have a more direct path and often learn sooner (or at least earlier) the hard way about this essential truth of their Life Path: They are called to live a life of integrity—or to suffer the consequences of not doing so. Whereas individuals with certain other Life Path numbers can get away with breaking the rules of life for a while and paying later, 9s get busted fairly quickly in such situations; life becomes a crash course for the soul's curriculum.

Nines are aware of human and social laws, but they are more interested in spiritual or universal laws that go beyond and above changing customs and mores. Once they are working the positive or evolved side of the 9 Life Path, these natural leaders lead by what Dr. Albert Schweitzer called example: "In the attempt to influence others for good, example is not the most important thing—it is the only thing." Thus, single-digit 9s, like the 18/9s, 27/9s, and 36/9s, must first find their own way in order to show others the way.

However, single-digit 9s can have trouble not letting their own blood get mixed in with their truths. They need to avoid becoming zealots or fanatics in whatever natural cause or mission they may have. It’s not that these 9s are merely opinionated; they are also very sensitive to the opinions and beliefs of others—though perhaps not to the extent that the 27/9s are, with their lack of self-confidence, or the 36/9s, with their idealistic standards. Nevertheless, they need to take to heart on a deep level that “what other people think of you is none of your business." Once single-digit 9s have aligned themselves with Natural Law and have freed themselves from the god of opinion, they can then reconnect to the god of their own heart, and in so doing transcend the blood, sweat, and tears of hard-won, experience-based wisdom to find true wisdom. By becoming living, breathing role models of integrity and showing the way with their profound, wise perspective, they fulfill their destiny. Thus, they become like lighthouses, illuminating the path for others on a dark night. 

### Working 9 in the Positive

These charismatic individuals who are positively expressing the single-digit 9 lead by example, and others see them as sources of wisdom. Like 27/9 Mahatma Gandhi, these 9s have become the change they wanted to see in the world. They have come to understand that their opinions—their filters through which they see the world—are not the higher truth, and have freed themselves from the tyranny of other people's opinions. Thus, they can now hear and consider other viewpoints while always checking them with their hearts. They embrace leadership with humility when they are ready and put themselves in service to their path and purpose. They’ve learned many lessons and quietly and demonstrably reflect them in their actions and their very being.

### Working 9 in the Negative

These single-digit 9s live by the adage "Do as I say, not as I do."  Disconnected from their inner wisdom and often highly reactive to the input and opinions of others, they defensively dismiss, especially from those closest to them, how they should live their life in favor of becoming followers of one method, one system of thought, one technique, one philosophy, or even one spiritual teaching or another. Fanatics to the core, they confuse their own beliefs and opinions with truth and try to impose that truth on everyone in their sphere of influence. A word to the wise is not sufficient to get through their defenses as they attempt to force everyone to see life as they do. When they end up in positions of authority, they can become tyrants, abusing their power and acting with a lack of integrity, thereby creating more of the very karma they are here to heal.

## Life-Path Issues

### Health

In the early stages of their personal evolution, these individuals don't yet understand that you reap what you sow. Thus, single-digit 9s can be very hard on their physical bodies, avoiding regular exercise, abusing drugs and alcohol, overeating, engaging in indiscriminate, unsafe sex, etc. It is only when they understand that what they put out into the universe comes back to them that they begin to change their behavior. If these 9s are on the shadow side of their Life Path, they can experience chronic illnesses, mystery ailments, energy imbalances, prolonged grief, back problems, or arthritis as they get older. These ills come not only from external sources, but also from within—from their subconscious, which may be resonating with their themes of guilt and regret. 

Keeping a health or exercise journal—noting their daily diet, exercise, energy levels, and hours of rest—can help them change their habits. This is an especially important touchstone for single-digit 9s who are out of touch with their physical bodies. Meditation can be a useful practice for many, helping them to become more conscious of the content of their minds and to create a healthy detachment from it. Because they have a tendency to live in their heads, a good exercise program helps them to get out of their minds.

Modalities and therapies that work with the subconscious mind, ranging from hypnosis to energy work, may be effective for single-digit 9s, depending on their belief systems. As these individuals heal their life issues at a deeper, spiritual level by working on themselves instead of trying to fix others, often their physical ailments disappear. By shifting their attention externally to be of service to others and by coming from a place of complete acceptance of what is, they begin the healing process. By forgiving themselves, they open the doors to being healed.

### Relationships

Nine relationships are not just personal; they are transpersonal, and they treat all their relationships as such. Yet they are capable of deep love, and their loved ones help them to connect to a life and a world beyond themselves. Their relationships have the capacity to open their hearts and awaken the deep wisdom of the heart, allowing their friends and family members—who may be drawn to archetypal solitude and isolation, either by living remotely in the world or by retreating into themselves—to become more human.

### Talents, Work, and Finances

Not all single-digit 9s are destined to be teachers or leaders; some are carpenters, musicians, secretaries, postal carriers; they're found in all walks of life. Yet in whatever way they come together with others, whether in the community or in their circle of family and friends, they naturally gravitate toward positions of management or leadership; they bring a depth of meaning to even the humblest of jobs. Because they are not as bound by the same limitations and challenges that often plague those with multiple-digit Life Paths, money comes to them naturally and in direct proportion to the service they render. 

In their business dealings, personal relationships, and approach to diet, exercise, and health, single-digit 9s need to ask themselves, "Where's the higher principle here?"  At other times, they can ask themselves, “If I were being my most courageous, selfless, generous, compassionate, and wise self, how would I act?" Regardless of personal preferences or what may appear to be in their best interests, the answer reflects their highest good. Whatever their talents and chosen careers, when they align themselves with universal law, they become a light unto all of us. 

## Some Well-Known 9s

As of 2018 and the publication of the 25th Anniversary Edition of this book, the oldest single-digit 9s were under the age of eighteen, which is still too young to be recognized. As more single-digit 9s mature and make their mark on the world, their names will begin to appear in future editions of this book.

## Keys to Fulfilling Your Destiny

If you are a single-digit 9 Life Path, this chapter can help you to fulfill your life purpose by calling your attention to your main issues and suggesting specific actions you can take to transform key areas of your life.

### Guidelines and Recommendations

* Respect the opinions and choices of others but, above all, listen to your heart.
* Before you act or make any important decision, ask yourself, "What would my Higher Self do in this situation?"
* Remember that you are setting an example for others, whether or not you enjoy your role in life. 
* Discover what inspires you in life, and pursue that.

### Useful Questions

1.  Consider these questions:
    * How might you perceive and act differently if, before you made any decision or took any action, you first asked yourself, “What would my Higher Self do in this situation?”
    * In what ways do you set an example for others? Really consider this because you may not realize how much attention people pay to what you do. 
    * What is your relationship to your own and other people’s opinions? 
    * What are your thoughts on the idea that there is no one right book, teacher, diet, exercise system, or belief system, but rather what's best is what works best for each individual? Can this idea help you to become less attached to your own way of doing things and, therefore, more respectful of other people's processes, choices, and decisions? 

2. If these questions bring up insights, how might you apply them? 
