## Understanding Life Purpose
- Those on the 16/7 life path are here to work through issues of openness, authenticity, acceptance, and insecurity.
- 16/7s confront specific challenges associated with each digit of their birth number.
- The creative energy of 1 has to be used for constructive purposes, or it may turn back on itself in destructive ways.
- This 1 energy often brings a sense of insecurity or a feeling of inferiority.
- 16/7s have a deep fear of being shamed or looking foolish.
- They tend to be extremely private people, living "within" themselves.
- They prefer a great deal of privacy.
- They also have much to contribute due to their incisive mental clarity and awesome creative imagination.

## Trust and Openness
- Despite their outward activities their work, family, and other interests a conscious or subconscious longing whispers to them.
- They have a drive to find safe harbor that offers a sense of communion with self, with others, with the world, and with the Spirit and inspiration that animate us all.
- 16/7s long for a more profound connection to life.
- They achieve this through a primary 7 challenge - learning to trust their inner knower and to trust the world as it unfolds.
- Most 16/7s have significant issues with trusting others and trusting themselves.
- Few 7s naturally trust themselves, although they may appear to do so to outside observers.
- They usually discover that they trust their mind, their knowledge, and the theories and beliefs they have gathered from others.

## Health
- 16/7s experience chronic feelings of betrayal or being misunderstood.
- Their heart and knees become vulnerable.
- Issues in the abdomen or lungs are also possibilities.
- Subtle forms of energy work, homeopathy, visualizations, and meditation generally work well for 16/7s.
- They also benefit from any form of meditation or relaxation practice that lets them release their thoughts rather than get lost in them.
- A satisfying, nourishing, but light diet works well for 16/7s.
- They usually gravitate toward light eating because, to them, quality is more desirable than quantity.
- They need to experiment to find the optimal diet, learning to trust their instincts even more than research.
- Most 16/7s derive special benefit from more refined forms of conscious exercise, such as t'ai chi, yoga, and gentle aerobics, including swimming and walking.
- Exercise keeps creative energy flowing for 16/7s and helps them learn to trust their body's natural wisdom.

## Relationships
- If working in the negative, 16/7s find it difficult to express their feelings or show their emotions.
- Opening up to genuine intimacy can present a significant challenge.
- Their relationships may exist on a fantasy level, as they look for an idealized figure.
- Some 16/7s would rather read a book than have a relationship.
- When they are working the positive aspects of this life pattern, 16/7s' high vision leads them to openness, trust, and sharing, resulting in "perfect" intimacy.
- Making love with mindless abandon, letting themselves be seen and known entirely, is both frightening and healing for 16/7s, for whom lovemaking can become a tender and courageous act of accepting the body and earthly life.

## Talents, Work, and Finances
- Since 16/7s combine creative energy, high standards, and sharp intellect, they inevitably generate exemplary, beautiful work in any field.
- They gravitate toward work that allows a sense of privacy, that challenges their intellect, and that appeals to their high-minded sense of meaning.
- The 6 influence raises the possibility that self-worth issues may interfere with their ability to receive and to create abundance.
- Once 16/7s begin to value themselves and their work and open themselves to receiving, the world gives back to them in return.