## Understanding Life Purpose
- 18/9s are here to work through issues of honesty, money, control, and confidence.
- 18/9s are here to creatively manifest and apply their energy and influence.
- Many 18/9s can appear expansive, outgoing, even jovial, but there's nothing frivolous about their inner life.
- 18/9s' inner life often contains shadows of guilt, fear, and insecurity.
- 18/9s need to work through deeply rooted, often conflicting attraction and avoidance related to money and power.
- 18/9s need to work through insecurity issues on their path to integrity and wisdom.
- Integrity rests at the pinnacle of 18/9s' life purpose.

## 9: Integrity and Wisdom
- 18/9s must rely on high ethics and honesty.
- 18/9s either lead by inspiring example or mislead and get made into examples.
- Those who live in accordance with higher laws create a good life of honest, diligent work.
- Those who ignore higher laws face the law of cause and effect.

## Talents, Work, and Finances
- 18/9s are usually one step ahead of everyone.
- The significance of 18/9s is not in what they do, but in how they do it.
- 18/9s should live a balanced life of integrity, based on the wisdom of living in accordance with spiritual law.

## Health
- Many 18/9s experience average or even excellent health.
- Some 18/9s suffer from asthma, bone or nerve problems, including pain in the neck or lower spine.
- 18/9s' physical ailments often reflect subconscious fears of abusing power.
- Physical ailments teach 18/9s compassion.

## Relationships
- 18/9s can be intense and attentive, but intimacy and vulnerability may not come easily.
- 18/9s can offer charm, energy, and depth to others.
- A key for 18/9s is finding a partner who stands up to them.
- A key for 18/9s is finding a partner who helps them balance power with sensitivity.
- A key for 18/9s is finding a partner who understands and accepts them as they are.

## Working 18/9 in the Positive
- 18/9s have a natural depth, charisma, and magnetism.
- 18/9s have an outgoing, charismatic personality that reflects both intelligence and broader wisdom.
- 18/9s' work at home, in their community, or in the world at large reflects their natural leadership by example.
- 18/9s are brilliant strategists who know and follow the rules of any game they play.
- 18/9s use their influence and share their abundance to make a difference.
- 18/9s lead by example and by inspiration.
- 18/9s provide valuable ideas to others.
- 18/9s are hardworking and creative.
- 18/9s subordinate their work to a higher good.

## Working 18/9 in the Negative
- The inner world of 18/9s is often filled with turmoil, suppressed fear, and a sense of heaviness.
- 18/9s long for health and inner peace, but they get caught up in their own opinions.
- 18/9s tend to seek absolute power and control.
- 18/9s preach to others, overtly or subtly, about how life should be lived, but they do not follow their own dictates.
- 18/9s resist what arises in their own life and want to control the lives of others.
- 18/9s lose sight of the larger gifts contained in their own challenges.

## Guidelines and Recommendations
- Focus on what is right, not on who is right.
- Don't fear your power; just use it in service of others.
- Ask yourself in what areas of life you serve as a good example and in what areas you do not.
- Apply your creative powers in ways you enjoy.

## Deepening Your Understanding
- Review the main sections covering the digits that make up your birth number: 1, 8, and 9.
- Review birth numbers of family and friends.

## Spiritual Laws: The Leverage to Change Your Life
- Read about each of the following laws in Part Four: The Law of Higher Will, The Law of Honesty, The Law of Choices, The Law of Intuition, The Law of Flexibility.
- Do the exercises you find for each of these laws.
- Consider how you might apply each law to your life.