## Understanding Life Purpose
- Those on the 27/9 life path are here to work through issues of balanced responsibility, self-trust, and integrity.
- 27/9s eventually confront and have to overcome tendencies to mentalize experience rather than trust their heart.
- They also need to work through subconscious issues of mistrust and betrayal and open their guarded heart to find and follow the spiritual laws "written" there.
- In order to access the higher laws of their heart, 27/9s must first let go of their concerns about others' opinions and trust their own higher wisdom revealed in their feelings rather than their mental processes.
- Although integrity and wisdom form the primary life purpose of 27/9s, 7 is key because 27/9s have to come to trust themselves in order to access the higher principles that will guide them to integrity.
- Until then, all they can do is what someone else has suggested.

## 9: Integrity and Wisdom
- The more 27/9s monitor others' opinions, the more difficulty they have getting in touch with their own feeling center.
- Since 7 energy tends to focus in the mind and leads 27/9s to avoid feelings that have in the past brought pain, 27/9s face a significant internal challenge before they can access and live in alignment with the laws of Spirit.
- When they lose touch with what they actually feel, they talk around issues and engage in social chatter, but they aren't truly self-revealing, even to themselves.
- With their need for privacy, imagine how difficult 27/9 Elvis Presley's life must have been; he felt a sense of Spirit that worked through him in his own way, but he let others manage his life rather than following his own heart, and this destroyed him.
- Most 27/9s appear self-assured and have a natural charisma associated with the leadership energy of 9s.
- Their sometimes forceful mental ideas and opinions overcompensate for their lack of trust.
- Because they tie their identity to their beliefs and opinions, their beliefs can become fanatical even when they start out with good intentions.
- The confident appearance of 27/9s masks a deeper uncertainty; they have a diffuse sense of identity and constantly strive to redefine themselves. 
- Because of the 2, those 27/9s who have awakened to the higher service find meaning in providing support for and in cooperation with others.
- Whether they use spiritual language is irrelevant.

## Working 27/9 in the Positive
- Committed to service and expressing universal wisdom rather than rigid opinions, they help inspire others through their integrity and their attunement to higher laws.
- Maintaining a feeling connection to the higher will within them, they effectively serve others.

## Working 27/9 in the Negative
- Deluded preachers or eternal seekers, these individuals center their world around a particular teaching, method, religion, or philosophy.
- Quiet fanatics, they live according to the dictates or opinions of others and act as if their own opinions were sacred. 
- Deep down, these 27/9s feel lonely and cut off from the world and from true inspiration in their lives, because they trust their mind over their heart.

## Health
- Most 27/9s have a significant amount of debris floating around in their subconscious, including burdensome guilts from childhood.
- The 7 means 27/9s may experience a sensitivity around the heart area if they suffer from chronic, unresolved feelings of betrayal.
- Feelings of isolation or disconnection can lead some 27/9s to psychological disturbances, as well as to abuse of drugs or alcohol, which numbs their inner pain.
- The key to diet, exercise, and every arena of health for 27/9s is clear: They need to trust their instincts, intuition, and direct experience.
- They do well to recognize the consequences, both positive or negative, of action or inaction, of what they eat or don't eat, and of their habits of exercise.

## Relationships
- Those working 27/9 energy may have developed deep empathy and emotional depth, or they may have created an emotional persona to compensate for their mental approach to life.
- Their relationships offer the chance to experience vulnerability wherein the lessons of trust are learned.
- Good sex for 27/9s is like going to confession.

## Talents, Work, and Finances
- Because of an inherent, though not always manifested, love of the outdoors, 27/9s make very good backwoods guides, for example, but they also excel at high-tech careers.
- Most 27/9s excel in service and healing-related work, in the broadest meanings of those terms.

## Stemming from their subconscious resonance with the vows of poverty taken by monks and nuns, many 27/9s feel a subtle negativity toward or mixed feelings about money and worldly success.
- If money is scarce in their lives, 27/9s may want to reexamine their positive and negative beliefs about money.
- They also benefit from exploring self-trust issues, which can hold them back in some areas of work.
- For 27/9s, money, like most things in life, is only a means to learn more about the workings of their own psyche. 
- Their presence and depth pull 27/9s to leadership positions.
- They most often earn enough money to meet their needs and then some.