## Understanding Life Purpose
- Those on the 34/7 or 43/7 life path are here to work through issues of trust, patience, and emotional expression and to have faith in the spiritual process operating within their life.
- Both these life paths present the opportunity of blending the incisive mind of 7s with the down-to-earth practicality of mature 4s and the sensitivity and expressiveness of 3s.
- Because of the influence of 4, finding a sense of communion or unconditional trust depends on 34/7s and 43/7s following a step-by-step process of self-discovery.

## Health
- Combining the sensitivity of 3 with the sturdiness of 4 and the mental capacity of 7 energy, 34/7s and 43/7s generally have strong bodies, but they still have a hard time trusting their own instincts or intuition.
- Due to subtle fears that their body may not know how to "take care of itself?" they seek solutions in either pharmaceuticals, surgery, or subtle medicines, herbs, and food supplements.
- When they begin trusting their instincts—for example, taking vitamins when their body tells them such vitamins are needed—they know instinctively just what to do and when to do it.

## Talents, Work, and Finances
- Multifaceted energies create special challenges, abilities, and opportunities for 34/7s and 43/7s.
- Both 34/7s and 43/7s have strong creative and expressive potential, and they excel in a variety of fields, including metaphysics, martial arts, acting or producing, business, and creative writing.
- Many 34/7s, in particular, have compulsive and impulsive spending patterns; both 34/7s and 43/7s can behave frivolously with money.

## Working 34/7 or 43/7 in the Positive
- Strong, practical, physical, and spiritual, these individuals have learned to trust the mystery and wisdom of life working through them and through everyone else.
- These freethinkers trust in the process of their life, including the ups and downs, the difficulties and joys.
- Meditation, which quiets their mind, brings a sense of harmony and peace as a regular part of their life.

## Working 34/7 or 43/7 in the Negative
- These individuals feel torn between conflicting drives for security and desires to go inward and get away from the material world.
- Confused and troubled by a human world they don't trust, they see hypocrisy everywhere, reflecting the turmoil they feel inside.
- Self-doubt only aggravates self-trust issues, so they constantly look for teachers, techniques, and ideas that can help them; they become wandering spiritual vagabonds.

## Relationships
- In the positive, 34/7s and 43/7s bring stability, constancy, and feeling quality to their relationships.
- As long as they have developed open, honest communication and associated trust with their partner, their relationship thrives.
- Trust issues for 34/7s and 43/7s center on a subtle, underlying sense of feeling uncomfortable.

## Life-Path Issues
- 34/7s and 43/7s appreciate forms of skill training that have deeper meaning than just doing push-ups to get bigger muscles.
- Martial arts furnish an exceptional means to develop deeper trust in the body's spontaneous ability to learn and move.
- Routines that combine body, mind, and spirit usually hold their interest longest.