## Understanding Life Purpose
- 40/4s have a very focused life purpose, undiluted by other numbers and energies.
- Because their central purpose rarely comes easily, 40/4s may have trouble feeling grounded.
- They may skip or ignore necessary steps, or feel stuck in situations that no longer work.

## Working 40/4 in the Positive
- 40/4s combine a superb analytical ability with profound strength and persistence, sensitivity, expressiveness, and clear intuition.
- When 40/4s free themselves from analytical loops and trust their gut feelings, they can make inspired, practical, and even brilliant decisions.
- They are stable and trustworthy friends and advisers, persisting through hardships and obstacles, no matter how long it takes.
- Their intuition and faith help them find situations and opportunities that suit their interests and abilities.

## Working 40/4 in the Negative
- They don't trust their intuition, making decision making a stressful, confusing exercise.
- Their relationships tend to be unstable and short-lived, repeating patterns of hello-goodbye.
- They have trouble with commitment or staying put with anyone or anything.
- Their stubbornness and unyielding views get in the way of compromise.
- They tend to start and stop a task without completing it.

## Health
- 40/4s may have problems with their hips, thighs, knees, ankles, or feet.
- Physical constipation indicates repressed drives and desires.
- Like 20/2s, they may have allergies, but are more likely than 20/2s to suffer accidents arising out of impatience or impulsive action.
- Their body tends to be either stocky or very long.
- They put on weight easily, but a low-fat diet and aerobic exercise, especially useful are forms of exercise that counterbalance strength with stretching and relaxation, generally works well for them.

## Relationships
- 40/4s can appear pushy, meddling, bossy, or controlling, when they just feel overly responsible for everyone.
- They may have trouble with stability, but can be as stable and supportive as the Rock of Gibraltar.
- They have a strong attraction to raising families, bringing tensions or energy blocks to their sexual relationship.
- Yoga or stretching and relaxation exercises help them open up and enjoy the sexual aspects of their nature.

## Talents, Work, and Finances
- They have excellent analytical skills and intuition as well as a need for secure foundations.
- They do well in any form of business, but make excellent advisers, organizers, financiers, or real estate counselors.
- They feel most satisfied when their business actively helps or supports other people, and do well as care givers in nursing or social work.
- They can excel in other fields, including sports and athletics, wherever qualities of persistence, strength, sensitivity, and analytical abilities apply.

## Life-Path Issues
- The Law of Process is key toward fulfillment: First things first, lay the groundwork, and then take one step at a time.
- The Law of Patterns influences success or failure.
- They tend to bounce from overanalysis to emotional impulsiveness or hysteria.
- They need to balance and integrate mind and emotions.
- Combining analytical ability with intuition, they demonstrate unusual clarity and foresight.