## Understanding Life Purpose
- Those on the 45/9 life path are here to work through issues of stability, independence, and integrity as they learn to apply a process of discipline over time to experience freedom, and to align their life with higher principles and heartfelt wisdom.
- Life will provide a curriculum that teaches 45/9s the discipline and focus that lead to inner and outer freedom, and the necessity of following a stable step-by-step process to reach their goals.
- Physically strong and mentally quick, with a desire for adventure and excitement, 45/9s often deal with life-and-death issues.
- The central life challenge for 45/9s entails moving attention from their busy, visual mind to their peaceful inner core, where they can contact their deep intuitive wisdom.
- Even when 45/9s have access to higher laws, they still face the challenge of putting their knowledge into action, thus fulfilling their destiny. Integrity does not come easily for any 9s because our life purpose holds our greatest challenge. 
- Those working 45/9 also face challenges stemming from the issues of 4, such as stability and process and the issues of 5, such as freedom and discipline. 
- Although most 45/9s aren't necessarily oriented toward inner processing, much happens in their external world that propels them to deeper understanding.
- Those working 45/9 tend to adore the drama and excitement of heroics, but they are here to lead, teach, or inspire others in everyday ways.
- Before 45/9s can fully exemplify higher laws in everyday life, they have to confront issues related to the energies of 4 and 5.
- In the positive, 4 brings stability, security, and a willingness to follow a clear process toward a goal.
- Less sensitive to other people's opinions than 27/9s or 36/9s, those working 45/9 nevertheless have a tenuous sense of identity and often define themselves in terms of the roles they play. 
- In the positive, 5 energy leads 45/9s to feel a constant sense of inner freedom, no matter what the circumstances, with the discipline and focus to generate mobility and a sense of outer freedom as well.
- As 45/9s bring the stable energies of 4 into maturity, they enjoy the fruits of a clear analytical ability, strength, sociability, diligence, and a mastery of process.
- Many 45/9s need to get grounded and stay put long enough to harvest the fruits of their labors.
- The Law of Discipline addresses potential tendencies of 45/9s to feel scattered and diffuse their efforts.
- The combined energies of 5 and 9 create drives that send 45/9s seeking inner freedom, not mere independence or self-indulgence, due to their intuitive if sometimes unconscious connection to higher laws.
- The combination of 4 and 9 creates drives that send 45/9s seeking inner stability, not merely staying put in one location, but feeling like the Rock of Gibraltar inside.
- Those working 45/9 are here for more than understanding; they come for wisdom, which emerges as they begin to live what they understand.
- Whether stable and practical or ungrounded dreamers, 45/9s aspire at levels deeper than their conscious awareness to the wisdom or experience that sets them free.
- Strong, witty, and charismatic, they attract many friends, admirers, and students.
- Bound by no conventional rules but aligned with higher laws, their life may appear ordinary from the outside, but their influence, even in the midst of ordinary activities, has an extraordinary quality that inspires others around them.
## Working 45/9 in the Negative
- These individuals display strength and cleverness, but they don't know what to do with either.
- They don't live what they profess, deceiving themselves as well as others.
- They never really challenge or test their own views.
## Health
- The health of 45/9s depends almost entirely on whether they are working their life issues in the positive or negative.
- Stubborn 45/9s encounter conditions that force them to reassess their life and make a careful, step-by-step process of recovery.
- Because of hurdles associated with 9 energy, 45/9s may ignore the necessity of sound nutrition and exercise and suffer the consequences.
- In due time, as a matter of course, 45/9s begin to align their diet and exercise routines as simple, everyday disciplines.
## Relationships
- Depending on their life experience and whether they are working in the positive or the negative, 45/9s may lack sensitivity and compassion or they may have cultivated these qualities through facing their own difficulties.
- Their relationships and emotional lives are wild cards, however, because of the drive toward stability and family issues of 4 along with the drive toward independence of 5. 
- Most 45/9s, in any case, learn much from their relationship and their family of origin.
- Part of the emotional maturation of 45/9s entails accepting their feelings and following a process to develop deeper, more intimate relationships.
- Beyond biological drives, 45/9s desire sexual relationships that have an element of adventure or variety, although they also seek a deeper sense of connection.
## Talents, Work, and Finances
- The sharp analytical abilities and quick minds of 45/9s help them create needed changes in fields such as ecology, psychology, personal growth, and other areas where leadership is needed.
- From a realistic financial base, 45/9s can create the security from which to expand.
- It's important for 45/9s to keep their finances in very good order as a way of staying practical and grounded.