## Understanding Life Purpose
- Those on the 47/11 life path are here to combine creativity and trust, learning to trust the creative spirit within them and channel their energy to help build a more stable, peaceful world.
- Their world may expand to the larger community or may, with equal significance, limit itself to a smaller circle of family, friends, or associates.
- Since our life purpose is an uphill climb, 47/11s face a number of issues and tests related to the chronology of their birth number.
- First, they need to explore and come to trust their own process of growth over time.
- Second, they need to overcome a fear or expectation of mistrust or betrayal, most often generated by family problems in childhood.
- Third, they need to overcome a profound insecurity that may interfere with their openhearted connections with others.

## Health
- Most 47/11s have a very refined, sensitive body and energy field.
- Like other double 1s, 47/11s are vulnerable in the reproductive area (including lower abdomen and lower back), especially if their creative energy is blocked.
- The heart and, secondarily, the legs may also be problem areas if 7 or 4 issues are unresolved.
- Their body is strong but also very sensitive.
- When 47/11s are ill, working with their mind (on both conscious and subconscious levels) through positive imaging and creating empowering beliefs can assist dramatically in the healing process.
- These individuals definitely benefit from a grounding diet, preferably vegetarian, with little or no dairy products, but the diet mustn't be too light, or they may get so "airy" they float away.
- The main thing for 47/11s to remember is to trust their own instincts and intuition regarding nutrition and exercise.
- Those working 47/11 generally prefer aesthetic kinds of exercises in natural settings that generate a feeling of inner balance and peace, such as hiking in scenic surroundings, actively sculpting, splashing paint on canvas, or doing a variety of different calisthenics to music, incorporating breath, movement, and relaxation.
- Because of the 4, some kind of routine, even if varied, is important to keep their creative energies clear and open.
- Demanding exercise that requires coordination of mind, feeling, and attention serves to keep 47/11s physically grounded.
- They are nourished by forests, deserts, and almost any natural setting.

## Relationships
- Many 47/11s marry, have children, and settle into a stable life.
- Nevertheless, most do not fall into conventional roles; they are too busy being creative, leading people out into nature or into the realm of their own imagination.
- In any relationship, the process of developing mutual trust through vulnerability and honest communication remains key.
- They also need to pay attention to being truly present on an emotional level.
- Their sexuality may involve creative fantasy, and they generally experience an active drive, including masturbation if their drive outstrips their partner's or if they prefer the safety of their fantasies to the vulnerability of sexual intimacy.

## Talents, Work, and Finances
- Those working 47/11 manifest mental creativity at its best.
- Because of their creative imaginations, they make wonderful writers of fiction, creative advertising copy, or inspiring speeches.
- Enjoying solitary work, they also make good researchers unless they lack patience or shun routine.
- They apply their creativity to any form of business, working for the larger family of humanity.
- They could even become or write about a brilliant inventor, a forest wizard (or computer wizard), a hermit sage, or a healer who works with spirit guides.
- Like 29/11s and 38/11s, 47/11s share double creative energy and tend to attract money from many sources, but for them money is a secondary motive; they hardly notice when it comes in or goes out.
- When their juices are flowing, 47/11s create money the same way they do anything else—apparently by magic.

## Working 47/11 in the Positive
- The energy field of these individuals shines with a kind of clear luminosity others sense rather than see with their physical eyes.
- By their inspiring presence, they remind us of the creative energy and Spirit that works through all of us, whether or not we are yet aware of it.
- Traveling through different dimensions in imagination, they experience life as a spiritual mystery —a living, tacit realization—and they use their analytical skills, lightning-fast mind, and creative energy to share this uplifted experience of life with others.
- It may be hard for us to fathom the source of their inspiration or to keep up with their pace.
- It's as if they have an angel on their shoulder; the more they trust and work with their inner guides and subtle intuitions, the more positive energy and beauty they bring into the world.

## Working 47/11 in the Negative
- These individuals live in a world of their own mind, without a sense of grounding or connection.
- Isolated and embittered, they lose themselves in the "virtual reality" of their creative imagination and live like hermits, even when among people.
- They prefer computers to people, and solitude to people they mistrust.
- Brilliant failures, they want a magical world where things happen quickly and easily, and they don't always want to be here on planet Earth.
- They are very sensitive to feeling betrayed by others, and they experience conflicting pulls between inner and outer reality.
- Struggling under the weight of unresolved childhood difficulties, with their emotions inhibited, they are vulnerable to addiction to escapist drugs or experiences.

## Keys to Fulfilling Your Destiny
- Stay grounded; take small, practical steps.
- Exercise daily through dance or martial arts—whatever encourages you to stretch and breathe deeply.
- Find ways to inspire yourself and others through business.
- Remember to supplement analysis with gut feelings.

## Useful Questions
- How can I best share my energy with others?
- Have I supported my creativity by developing my skills?
- How can I make a strong, heartfelt connection with others?
- What do I fear about other people and what do I love?

## Deepening Your Understanding
- Turn to Part Two and reread the main sections covering the digits that make up your birth number: 1 (p. 31), 4 (p. 52), and 7 (p. 78).
- You may wish to review birth numbers of family and friends and, if they are open to it, discuss similar or different issues in your lives.

## Spiritual Laws: The Leverage to Change Your Life
- The Law of Choices (p. 328): Creativity is an energy we can choose to apply in positive or negative ways.
- The Law of Faith (p. 369): Only when we find faith in ourselves can we have faith in others.
- The Law of Patterns (p. 349): Patterns tend to reassert themselves unless we exert strong leverage to change them.
- The Law of Action (p. 390): To overcome insecurity, we need to acknowledge our vulnerability but act with confidence.
- The Law of Expectations (p. 373): Our life unfolds according to our hidden expectations and assumptions.
- Do the exercises you find for each of these laws.
- Consider how you might apply each law to your life.