## Understanding Life Purpose
- 17/8s are here to work through issues related to money, power, and spirit.
- 17/8s must confront conflicting drives, fears, and beliefs about money and power.
- 17/8s need to develop deeper trust in themselves and in Spirit.
- 17/8s must access confidence and creativity.

## Talents
- 17/8s have a strong "creative nature spirit," with a charisma that is light, airy, imaginative, and glowing.
- 17/8s have an innate drive for success.
- 17/8s can be successful in various fields, ranging from sports to politics.
- 17/8s have a powerful, insightful mind and inherent drive for success.
- 17/8s can make excellent financial analysts or heads of service organizations.

## Working 17/8 in the Positive
- 17/8s have bridged the worlds of business and spirit, combining an abiding, transcendental trust in themselves and in the world.
- 17/8s trust a higher power than their own.
- 17/8s find their own power and help empower others.
- 17/8s enjoy a sense of abundance that flows forth, attracted by their uplifting energy.
- 17/8s use mind and money for higher purposes.

## Working 17/8 in the Negative
- 17/8s feel insecure, withdrawn, and afraid of confrontation.
- 17/8s feel baffled by the world and want recognition, but fear betrayal.
- 17/8s often feel mistrust in business dealings and have unexpressed inner conflicts about the morality of money.
- 17/8s have a hard time being on the planet, in the sense of knowing what to do here.
- 17/8s may seem outgoing, but don't really share themselves or their very private inner processes.

## Health
- 17/8s have a heart area that is sensitive to unresolved trust issues or charged memories of betrayal.
- 17/8s may engage in subconscious self-sabotage if they are working the negative aspects of 8 energy.
- 17/8s may experience physical mishaps, like issues with their lower abdomen, reproductive area, or lower back, if their creative energy feels blocked or suppressed.
- 17/8s need exercise that gives them a sense of personal power and expansiveness, involves some form of skill practice to help them trust themselves, and keeps their creative energy flowing.
- 17/8s can benefit from meditation as a calming and grounding influence, giving their mind a rest.
- 17/8s need to balance physical discipline with self-pampering activities, such as regular massage, swims, or saunas.

## Relationships
- 17/8s require some time to trust and open enough for emotional intimacy.
- 17/8s can achieve a spiritual intimacy with their spouse or partner.
- 17/8s may feel uncomfortable revealing their inner life, fearing shame, vulnerability, or both.
- 17/8s may act rigid and controlling when feeling insecure.
- 17/8s often give away their power or assertiveness due to a lack of self-trust and a fear of power.
- 17/8s need to learn to share their inner sense of power and empower others.
- 17/8s have sexual issues that are highly dependent on how they manifest 7 energy—that is, whether they feel open or inhibited.
- 17/8s may have a difficult time with intimacy in relationships.
- 17/8s often feel a deeper sense of connection as they refine and transform their trust and power issues.

## Finances
- 17/8s often find that money just seems to show up.
- 17/8s become extremely successful without knowing why or how.

## Life-Path Issues
- 17/8s need to trust their intuition and make creative decisions.