## Understanding Life Purpose
- 20/2s are here to use their inner gifts in a spirit of service and establish healthy boundaries and balanced responsibility in order to achieve joyful cooperation and mutual support.
- 20/2s tend to feel overly responsible and overhelp, then feel resentful and withdraw emotionally.
- They quickly find fault with others as a defensive maneuver, as if to say, "It's not my fault!"

## Health
- 20/2s are prone to tension as their worry and their busy mind impose chronic, thought-produced stress on their body.
- They tend toward either stocky, wide bodies, reflecting their strength, or more wiry bodies that are surprisingly resilient.
- Most 20/2s benefit from aerobic exercise and a low-fat diet, along with stretching, deep breathing, and relaxation or meditation training. 
- They tend to avoid both, preferring outward, expansive training for strength.
- They have great potential strength but lack flexibility, so the best kind of exercise for them teaches flow, suppleness, and balance.

## Talents, Work, and Finances
- 20/2s have excellent organizing and coordinating abilities and make excellent mediators or negotiators. 
- They often serve as invaluable assistants or support people whose presence and work make a real difference in any enterprise. 
- They don't always work behind the scenes; sometimes they take center stage. 
- Security is very important to 20/2s and entails knowing that the rent or mortgage money is available, with enough left over to put food on the table. 
- Their practical nature will lead 20/2s, quite intuitively, to the secure situation they seek, and to the form of service that suits their abilities and temperament.

## Relationships
- 20/2s tend to withhold their real feelings when they are overcooperating because they aren't always sure what they feel or "if it's okay" to feel that way.
- They generally pay attention to their partner's needs and feelings first, but then they may feel burdened if they believe they're giving more support than they are getting.
- They tend to overcooperate and then undercooperate.
- They put their feelings on the back burner until something inside of them bursts, and then they become reactive and resentful.
- They typically start out a relationship in overcooperation, tossing their own values, interests, and needs out the window.
- They swing into undercooperation and withdraw or resist. 
- The ability to compromise and negotiate is crucial for 20/2s in relationships.
- They tend to follow the same patterns sexually, first doing what they think the other person wants them to do.
- 20/2s and their partners need to see a professional to open up lines of communication and rapport; having "a little talk" won't suffice.

## Working 20/2 in the Positive
- These individuals balance strength and flexibility, home and work, time for others and time for self. 
- Their bodies stay relaxed and supple, reflecting their internal equanimity, because they worry less and intuit more. 
- They help others to reach agreement, just as they have reached internal harmony and integration within themselves. 
- They feel useful and appreciated because they support and appreciate themselves, as well, honoring their boundaries, feelings, and limits.

## Working 20/2 in the Negative
- No one ever knows what these individuals want, not even themselves. 
- They're too preoccupied doing what they think they are supposed to do, and they are quick to expect that others should do the same.
- They feel responsible for almost everything, keeping the moon and stars in place while meeting everyone's needs. 
- They "sacrifice for others" and then resent it.
- They tend to give too much, then resist or withdraw completely.
- They suffer from allergies and other ailments.