## Expression and Sensitivity
- 21/3s and 12/3s have a strong tendency to intellectualize their emotions rather than express them.
- 21/3s and 12/3s respond to feelings of insecurity by appearing insecure or developing a courageous but false persona.
- 21/3s tend toward emotional neediness and withholding, while 12/3s struggle to balance giving too much and shutting down.

## Talents, Work, and Finances
- 21/3s and 12/3s display a strong combination of creative and expressive energy for writing, designing, speaking, debating, advising, promoting, or engaging in any creative field.
- 21/3s and 12/3s are happiest when expressing and creating while supporting and uplifting others.
- 21/3s and 12/3s generally confront some self-doubt and insecurity. 
- The well-rounded energies of 21/3s and 12/3s make for useful, innovative work. 

## Health
- 21/3s and 12/3s have sensitive throat regions and may experience occasional flare-ups when their expression is blocked. 
- If their creative energies are blocked or suppressed, they may encounter issues in the lower abdomen or reproductive areas. 
- 21/3s and 12/3s are physically strong and robust.
- If they repress their feelings, this is like corking up a volcano; their body feels the effects of stopping up the energy that is meant to flow freely. 

## Relationships
- 21/3s and 12/3s benefit from asking themselves periodically during the day, "How do I really feel right now?"
- 21/3s and 12/3s often experience a masked form of insecurity in their relationships. 
- When they're doing creative work, 21/3s, and to a lesser degree, 12/3s may have little time or energy for relationships. 
- The core of a strong relationship for 21/3s and 12/3s is emotional contact, even if this means passionate arguments. 

## Working 21/3 or 12/3 in the Positive
- 21/3s and 12/3s enjoy exceptional health when they express their emotions openly.
- 21/3s and 12/3s thrive on honesty and emotional acceptance in relationships. 
- 21/3s and 12/3s feel genuine pleasure in uplifting others through their caring words. 

## Working 21/3 or 12/3 in the Negative
- 21/3s and 12/3s give mixed messages; they act confident and then collapse under the weight of criticism. 
- 21/3s and 12/3s come back with cutting remarks and hurt back or withdraw, all without revealing their authentic feelings. 
- 21/3s and 12/3s are filled with self-doubt and stifled emotions, insecurity and blocked creativity, stubbornness and reactivity. 

## 3: Expression and Sensitivity
- 21/3s and 12/3s have a high degree of emotional sensitivity. 
- Their sensitive, emotional nature is not as easy to see as that of 30/3s.
- They need to show and express their fears, their anger, their hurt, and their joy, becoming emotionally present and real. 
- They need to overcome deep-seated fears of rejection, self-doubt, and insecurity. 
- They develop genuine confidence instead of false bravado and exhibit emotional generosity.

##  Deepening Your Understanding
- Review the main sections covering the digits that make up your birth number: 1, 2, and 3. 
- Discuss similar or different issues in your lives with family and friends. 

## Spiritual Laws
-  The Law of Honesty (p. 377): Recognizing and expressing our feelings is a primary form of honesty.
- The Law of Faith (p. 369): Only when we find faith in ourselves can we have faith in others.
- The Law of Choices (p. 328): We can choose to express our creative energies in positive or negative ways. 
- The Law of Balance (p. 341): Seeing our tendency to swing from one extreme to another, we find our balance point.
- The Law of Responsibility (p. 336): We find joy in service by learning when to say yes and how to say no. 

## Guidelines and Recommendations
- Express your feelings to remain supple and healthy, 
- Exercise to release pent-up emotional and creative energies. 
- Remember and visualize your strongest qualities. 
- Make authenticity – showing what you really feel – a priority. 

## Useful Questions
- Do I fully appreciate my creative abilities?
- Do I move from overconfidence to self-doubt?
- Do I intellectualize my feelings, or do I let people know how I really feel inside?
- What does my body reveal about how I'm using my creative energy?
- How might you put these insights into practice?