## Understanding Life Purpose
- Those on the 32/5 or 23/5 life path are here to work through issues related to independence, emotional honesty, and cooperation, finally experiencing freedom through discipline and depth of experience.
- Individuals working 32/5 or 23/5 are nearly identical in terms of the fundamental energies of their birth number, the only difference being the reversed order of the 3 and 2.
- Most 23/5s tend to be late bloomers, taking longer to come into their confidence due to the more predominant 3 energy, with its issues of sensitivity and self-doubt; they also have stronger fears along with a stronger drive toward expression than 32/5s.
- Most 32/5s have deeper issues around cooperation than their counterparts; they tend to give their all for someone, even letting go of their own multifaceted identity and, chameleonlike, adapting to the values, interests, and desires of their partner.
- Both 32/5s and 23/5s are here to experience true freedom.
- The freedom sought by most 32/5s and 23/5s manifests as a drive to experience and know.
- Sometimes the drive for experience is so strong that 32/5s and 23/5s end up trying to juggle too many things to avoid missing an opportunity and end up feeling scattered or depleted. 
- Both 32/5s and 23/5s can sometimes focus obsessively on whatever they are doing and lose sight of the bigger picture.
- The ultimate freedom 32/5s and 23/5s seek is internal- the freedom to be themselves, the freedom from self-doubt, the freedom from fear.
- Only by establishing this internal sense of expansiveness can they feel the fulfillment of their destiny in the external world. 
- The energy of 2, which sometimes tends toward overcooperation, combined with the dramatic energies of 3 and 5, can generate a kind of "martyr complex."
- Since 32/5s and 23/5s tend to be quick-witted, fast learners, they also get bored easily.
- The freedom they seek entails illumination and spiritual liberation—expanding their consciousness to the point where the universe becomes their playground.
- Most 5s have explored many areas of life. The liability is that they get a broad range of experience, but a relatively shallow one.
- Just as 2s tend to swing back and forth between the extremes of undercooperation and overcooperation, 32/5s and 23/5s tend to swing between the extremes of dependence and independence.
- Out of insecurity, both 32/5s and 23/5s tend to hide behind their social roles.
- Whether they spend their weekends going on safari or watching the soaps, skydiving or taking care of children, 32/5s and 23/5s have a vivacious quality.
- Feeling free inside, unbounded by limiting beliefs or fears, these multifaceted individuals are willing to take emotional risks.
- Passionate and adventurous, like Zorba the Greek, they teach by example and excitement.
- Feeling insecure, these individuals manipulate and control others, usually by getting angry or by withdrawing.
- Both 32/5s and 23/5s have a sensitive body that tends toward the slim and wiry due to their fast metabolism, which reflects the pace of their lives.
- Because of their sensitivity, they may use fat or muscle as a psychic buffer.
- If they have erratic or undisciplined habits of diet or exercise, their circulatory system may suffer.
- Those who travel alone in life, with no responsibilities to spouse, partner, or children, seem to have a kind of "freedom" in the sense of having no one to answer to and fewer compromises to make.
- Because of built-in challenges in the areas of freedom and independence, some 32/5s and 23/5s may project their own lack of internal freedom onto their partner, companion, or children.
- Both 32/5s and 23/5s have an emotionally sensitive body and energy field, but both often have some difficulty revealing their feelings.
- They also need to acknowledge a desire for variety and adventure and find a way to fulfill this desire with their partner if they are in a committed relationship.
- In the area of sexuality, 32/5s and 23/5s can be very shy and insecure or sensual, adventurous, and passionate—or all of the preceding.
- These individuals appreciate variety as the spice of life, so any occupation that allows them to explore many facets of experience, such as teaching, writing, acting, music, politics, leading trainings, court reporting, or sales work that involves travel and working with a variety of people, can suit their talents and interests.
- Financially, even though security is an issue, money isn't as high a priority as the experiences it can buy.
- With the quick wit of 5s, they can usually find or create money when they need it and stay at least one step ahead of any creditors.
- A balanced, low-fat diet and regular exercise are both very important disciplines for 32/5s and 23/5s.
- You are more than the role you play; value your essence.
- Remember: Discipline and depth open the doors to freedom.
- Pace yourself, make time for relaxation, and stay healthy.
- Find the courage to be as open and vulnerable as you can.
- When I feel limited or restricted, who can set me free?
- Have I found a balance between dependence and independence?
- What is my present level of discipline and focus?
- Do I directly express what I really feel and need?
- Turn to Part Two and reread the main sections covering the digits that make up your birth number: 2 (p. 38), 3 (p. 45), and 5 (p. 61).
- Read about each of the following laws in Part Four:
    - The Law of Discipline (p. 354): Discipline brings the focus and depth of experience that leads to inner freedom.
    - The Law of Balance (p. 341): Seeing our tendency to swing from one extreme to another, we find our balance.
    - The Law of Responsibility (p. 336): We establish mutual support by knowing when to say yes and how to say no.
    - The Law of Honesty (p. 377): To be honest with others, we have to be honest with ourselves.
    - The Law of Action (p. 390): To overcome insecurity, we need to acknowledge our vulnerability but act with confidence.