## Understanding Life Purpose
- Those on the 25/7 life path are here to work through issues of privacy, openness, and independence, finally coming to trust spiritual forces operating through themselves, others, and the world, and to experience inner freedom through a focused discipline.
- Trusting self and others, along with discipline and focus, are primary life issues for 25/7s.
- Most 25/7s need a great deal of privacy and sense of independence.
- Due to subtle fears of being shamed or betrayed, they tend to draw back "inside themselves" emotionally.
- Because of their world-class thinking abilities, 25/7s can find external success, but their life purpose centers more around inner processing than worldly pursuits. 
- Nearly all 25/7s have an appealing lightness and clarity about them.
- They have a close association with the subtle energies some people call angels.

## Health
- In the positive, 2 brings strength; 5 brings an expansive sense of freedom; and 7 brings a discriminating mind that follows sound health practices.
- In the negative, however, 2 means 25/7s get drained and stressed from drinking too much, resulting in possible allergies.
-  5 means they feel scattered, dependent, and resentful, which compromises the adrenals and nervous system.
- 7 means they are sensitive to feelings of betrayal and constricted around the heart area.
-  Few activities are as healing as drifting down a river, canoeing across a lake, or hiking through the woods.
- Most 25/7s need grounding. 
- Physical exercise, martial arts, and any positive physical experience help to ground them. 
- Aesthetic forms of healing that focus on the mind, such as visualization, working with light and color, flower essences, and art, are all useful for 25/7s.

## Relationships
- Most 25/7s have clear-cut issues that make sharing their feelings and revealing their vulnerability especially challenging.
- They experience fears and pain of betrayal, real or imagined, in their hearts.
- They trust their mind and think their way through emotions, which cuts them off from a sense of connection with others.
- They keep to themselves a great deal, desiring a high degree of privacy and independence. 

## ThtenUy Work, and Finances
- Most 25/7s work well in writing, acting, research, or high-tech fields.
- They are well suited to any work that requires exceptionally deft thinking ability and skillful hands.
- 25/7s make excellent researchers, scholars, physics professors, and computer whizzes.
- 25/7s have a strong aesthetic nature.
-  Financial lack is usually linked to a lack of self-trust. 
- When working their energies in positive ways, 25/7s have minds that can do whatever they want and spirits that are there to serve.

## Working 25/7 in the Positive
- The life of these individuals may or may not appear spiritual or include spiritual practices or inner work. 
- They are a source of often deep understanding because they look inside to find whatever they need to know. 
- They are adventurers who bring to light the freedom within; living the liberated life.
- They find satisfaction sharing the truths that experience has taught them. 
- They go out and touch others. They are grateful for all experiences, because they see Spirit everywhere.

## Working 25/7 in the Negative
-  They don't feel others can be trusted. 
- They constantly look for the book, training, or teacher who can help them be whole or give them the conclusive understanding they want with their mind. 
- They assume they're going to be left out, and to the degree they act like a recluse, they do get left out. 
