## Understanding Life Purpose
- Those on the 28/10 life path are here to work through issues combining material success and creative energy, applying their creative energy and intuitive gifts in service of others, guiding with authority and compassion.
- The combined influence of creativity and the inner gifts of sensitivity, strength, expression, and refined intuition, the authority of 28/10s comes to full power once they overcome their life issues and obstacles.
- Nearly all 28/10s have "healing hands"; using them with sensitivity, they can intuitively feel where to direct or channel life energy.
- 28/10s tend to gain respect from friends, family, or society at large.

##  t: CREATIVITY AND CONFIDENCE
- The powerful creativity of 28/10s is accompanied by equally powerful insecurities.
- The powerful creativity of 28/10s is accompanied by equally powerful insecurities.
- When not taking leadership roles, 28/10s can often become the power behind the throne, cooperating with one or more people to create useful forms of service for a better world.
- In such roles, they need to be careful about getting too serious and preachy.
- 28/10s may fear using their powers.
- 28/10s have an inborn drive for authority.
- 28/10s have issues with authority, and before they can assume their own authority, they have to acknowledge, express, and finally release repressed anger toward authority figures.

## Working 28/10 in the Positive
- These individuals serve as authority figures whom others admire and respect.
- They serve as intuitive advisers to friends, loved ones, and others.
- Independent, self-sufficient, even enchanting, they attract others to their energy field.
- Intuitive and inspiring, they provide clear counsel for the highest good of all concerned.

## Working 28/10 in the Negative
- Insecure, trapped in negative beliefs about money and authority, feeling needy and dependent, these individuals control and manipulate others.
- They resent authority figures because they haven't yet taken on their own authority.
- Suffering physically with symptoms of repressed anger and frustration, they fear the dark images that appear in their imagination; they are unable to discriminate between negative impressions and clear intuitions.
- Such 28/10s haven't yet experienced or contacted the inner and outer guides available to them.

## Health
- Because they are here to become healing influences, 28/10s sometimes learn about healing through their own physical issues, energy illnesses, and eating disorders.
- Physical symptoms of repressed anger appear primarily in the area of the solar plexus (abdomen), down to the perineum {around the base of the spine) and lower back.
- The reproductive area of 28/10s is sensitive and sometimes overstimulated.
- Applying the key spiritual laws for this number will help 28/10s overcome insecurity, allow emotions to flow, and open the way to a greater sense of well-being.
- Although some may tend to avoid exercise initially, nearly all 28/10s thrive on exercise once they get in shape; exercise can improve their life dramatically by providing a release for withheld emotions, allowing blocked creative energies to flow and relieving pressure in the reproductive area.
- While exercise is good for nearly anyone, 28/10s especially thrive on aerobic exercise; active dance and martial arts are ideal.

## Relationships
- A major issue for 28/10s is trapped, unexpressed emotion—especially anger—which they tend to hold in or intellectualize, acting didactic and aloof instead of passionate.
- 28/10s may appear shy or quiet, storing negativity that needs to be discharged.
- Due to their creative energy and sensitivity, most 28/10s have sensitive and powerful sexual centers.
- They may experience problems associated with sexuality if they abuse or overuse it.
- 28/10s need to monitor carefully how they express their sexual and creative energies, bringing these energies into accordance with the Law of Choices (p. 328).

## Talents, Work, and Finances
- Those working 28/10 possess high energy, healing hands, and sensitive intuition.
- They can inspire others.
- Many forms of healing exist for body, mind, and emotions, including hands-on bodywork or energy work, counseling, writing, teaching, and motivating others.
- We find 28/10s in every walk of life, but no matter what their livelihood, they enjoy it most if given the opportunity to use their inner gifts, creative energies, and natural sense of authority.
- These individuals need to practice utmost honesty with regard to money.
- When their creative energy flows onward with courage and with love, they manifest money naturally; they enjoy it and channel it creatively.
- No one stops them but themselves; when they understand this, they get out of their own way and make significant contributions in the world.