## Understanding Life Purpose
- 29/11 life paths combine creative energy with higher principles and integrity.
- They apply their creativity in service of others, aligned with higher wisdom.
- They are here to live and learn spiritual laws, especially the laws 29/11s are here to live and learn.

## Talents, Work, and Finances
- 29/11s have the archetype, energy, and creative inspiration of the inventor, artist, athlete, and leader.
- They are natural networkers who enjoy many contacts.
- They represent the paradox of strong individualists who are also here to serve the larger good of the community.

## Relationships
- 29/11s tend to focus their creative energies in their mind, which inhibits their emotional expression.
- They tend to repress or intellectualize their feelings.
- Emotional inhibition, or the apparent absence of emotions, often affects their relationships.

## Health
- Individuals working 29/11 often have an unusual appearance due to the influence of powerful energy.
- Their energy field is often two or three times the average.
- When inspired or excited about a creative project, 29/lls don't need as much sleep as most people.

## Health (continued)
- 29/11s have a very sensitive reproductive area.
- They may suffer more broken bones or unusual diseases than people working other birth numbers.
- They seem to have exceptional luck.

## Health (continued)
- Most often, physical, emotional, or sexual problems of 29/lls result from blocked creative energy or problems brought on by specific patterns of abuse.
- Bodywork greatly benefits 29/lls, whether they are getting it or giving it.
- The subconscious minds of 29/lls are open and suggestible; therefore, positive thinking, visualization, and other forms of healing that work with the subconscious and the "energy body," such as acupuncture, acupressure, Shiatsu, laying on of hands, bioenergetics, and nutritional therapy, often yield better results than standard drugs and medicine.

## Health (continued)
- 29/11s need a varied diet that includes more dense or grounding foods than many other people-foods such as grains, beans, or occasional fish or poultry.
- They need to pay attention to the laws of nutrition and exercise in the same way they need to pay attention to any spiritual law.
- They absolutely need more exercise than the average person—not just for fitness reasons but as a means of keeping their energy flowing and grounded.

## Health (continued)
- They tolerate exercise well and thrive on it.
- Exercising daily and finding creative work or hobbies bring a sense of vitality and well-being to 29/1 Is.

## Working 29/11 in the Positive
- These people feel inspired and inspire others as they follow a clear path of service.
- They are creative strategists, supportive friends, and loyal allies.
- They attract people with their natural charisma and lead by inspiration.
- They offer something special, showing exceptional vitality and endurance to reach their goals.

## Working 29/11 in the Positive (continued)
- They are relaxed and open, these 29/lls get inspiration directly from Spirit. 

## Working 29/11 in the Negative
- Outwardly insecure and inhibited, or aloof, subdued, and seemingly self-assured, these individuals feel haunted by a sense of inferiority that manifests as competitiveness and a fear of losing.
- They are dominant and opinionated.
- They seem to have a chip on their shoulder and a need to prove something.
- They are stubborn and resistant, bossy and highly opinionated.

## Working 29/11 in the Negative (continued)
- They have a hard time letting go. 
- Their illusory inferiority inhibits creative risks that would make their life exciting.
- They are lost, without a real sense of themselves.
- They alternate between bouts of fitful energy and periods of collapse.

## Working 29/11 in the Negative (continued)
- Their pent-up energy generates addictive or abusive behaviors.
- Their lessons about spiritual law (especially about actions and their consequences) often get delivered in a court of law. 

## Keys to Fulfilling Your Destiny
- Exercise daily; it can change or even save your life.
- If insecurity gets in your way, move through it.
- Practice to become skillful; then rely on your creative energy.
- Take a weekend workshop that attracts you.

## Useful Questions
- In what ways do I channel my creative energy, and in what ways do I discharge my blocked energy?
- How can I make the best use of and benefit from my present situation?
- How would I most like to serve others?
- How can I begin to trust my heart over others' opinions?

## Deepening Your Understanding
- Turn to Part Two and reread the main sections covering the digits that make up your birth number: 1 (p. 31), 2 (p. 38), and 9 (p. 95).
- You may wish to review birth numbers of "family and friends and, if they are open to it, discuss similar or different issues in your lives.

## Spiritual Laws: The Leverage to Change Your Life
- The Law of Choices (p. 328): Creativity is an energy we can choose to apply in positive or negative ways.
- The Law of Flexibility (p. 324): By staying flexible, we make the best possible use of changing circumstances.
- The Law of Action (p. 390): To overcome insecurity, we need to acknowledge our vulnerability but act with confidence.

## Spiritual Laws: The Leverage to Change Your Life (continued)
- The Law of Intuition (p. 385): As we stop monitoring others' opinions, we can connect with our heart's wisdom.
- The Law of Responsibility (p. 336): Deep satisfaction comes with knowing when to say yes and how to say no.
- Do the exercises you find for each of these laws.
- Consider how you might apply each law to your life.