## Understanding Life Purpose
- Those on the 30/3 life path are here to work through issues of expression and sensitivity, overcoming self doubt to express themselves and use their inner gifts to encourage, uplift, and inspire others.
- Most people come into life to work a mixture of energies, but for 30/3s, their work and destiny are clear and focused.
- Those working 30/3 have the support of inner gifts, which include highly tuned sensitivity, inner strength, expressiveness, and intuition.
- All of these resources complement and support one major life theme: emotional expression.

## Health
- Most 30/3s, especially those with suppressed emotions, experience vulnerability in the throat area due to blocked expression. 
- If 30/3s feel a scratchy throat or a blockage there, they need to ask themselves, "What do I need to express that I'm holding back?" 
- Often, once they express what they feel, their throat quickly recuperates. 
- Music that opens the heart, touches the emotions, and enlivens or uplifts is always healing for 30/3s, whose health or illness reflects their emotional state.
- Their heart and knees also feel sensitive and vulnerable at times. 
- Those who have problems with misunderstanding, which 30/3s are prone to because of their issues with expression, often get energy blockages around the knees, which over time affect the circulation and eventually the physical structure.
- Those working 30/3 need to eat and exercise according to what feels right to them intuitively—what feels emotionally as well as physically good. 
- But they need to take care not to be run by their moods or to seek emotional consolation in the form of food or self-pampering when they are feeling lovelorn. 
- When they are feeling blue, expansive exercise to music lifts their spirits. 

## Relationships
- Nearly all 30/3s have a needy emotional quality that says, "Appreciate me"; they look for this emotional support in the outside world rather than in themselves. 
- Although they sometimes expect a lot without giving back in return, they also have a great capacity to give.
- Although 30/3s can appear unemotional, even coldly rational, as a reaction to their sensitivity, they have an extremely large and sensitive emotional energy field.
- Their voice usually reveals their feeling nature, and their ability to tune into others' feelings enhances their relationships.
- Despite appearances to the contrary, 30/3s are romantics at heart. 
- They love to fall in love, and they periodically get emotional "crushes." 
- They need to be very direct and straightforward about this tendency with their partner if they have one. 
- When they feel free to express feeling attracted to someone, this helps clear any obsessive tendencies toward the current attraction.
- In other words, they can have more lasting relationships by acknowledging and expressing, but not acting upon, infatuations that pass through their lives.

## Talents, Work, and Finances
- With their inner gifts of expression, sensitivity, and intuition—and their developed expressive abilities—30/3s help to uplift and nourish others around them in their immediate world or in a larger arena. 
- They may choose to be teachers, salespeople, writers, or lecturers—any role that reminds people of the feeling side of their lives.
- They have inherent gifts in any form of teaching, counseling, healing, performing, or creative expression due to their ability to tune into people and subtle dimensions.
- Those working 30/3 can also follow a social service path, and they tend to make good managers. 
- They can be successful in any field, but they feel most fulfilled if their work offers opportunities for self-expression.
- In addition to their emotional sensitivity, those working 30/3 also have a superb depth of intuitive intelligence that cuts to the heart of some of life's core issues. 
- Therefore, they do well in any field that involves clear logic and reason.
- Any lack of money relates in some way to self-doubt. 
- If 30/3s use their gifts and expression in the positive, money follows.

## Keys to Fulfilling Your Destiny
- Treat self-doubt as a hurdle to be overcome, not a stop sign.
- Give of yourself emotionally, even if you don't always feel you get back in equal measure.
- Allow and express your feelings in the moment.
- Trust and use your refined intuition and special resources. 

## Deepening Your Understanding
- Turn to Part Two and reread the main sections covering the digits that make up your birth number: 3 (p. 45) and 0 (p. 103).
- You may wish to review birth numbers of family and friends and, if they are open to it, discuss similar or different issues in your lives. 

## Spiritual Laws: The Leverage to Change Your Life
- The Law of Choices (p. 328): We can choose to express our energy and emotions in positive or negative ways.
- The Law of Honesty (p. 377): Acknowledging feelings to ourselves and others is a primary form of honesty.
- The Law of Expectations (p. 373): Our life unfolds according to our hidden expectations and assumptions.
- The Law of Faith (p. 369): Only when we find faith in ourselves can we have faith in others.
- The Law of Action (p. 390): To overcome self-doubt, we need to acknowledge our vulnerability but act with confidence. 
- Do the exercises you find for each of these laws. 
- Consider how you might apply each law to your life.