## Understanding Life Purpose
- Those on the 32/5 or 23/5 life path are here to work through issues related to independence, emotional honesty, and cooperation, finally experiencing freedom through discipline and depth of experience.
- Individuals working 32/5 or 23/5 are nearly identical in terms of the fundamental energies of their birth number, the only difference being the reversed order of the 3 and 2.
- Most 32/5s have deeper issues around cooperation than their counterparts; they tend to give their all for someone, even letting go of their own multifaceted identity and, chameleonlike, adapting to the values, interests, and desires of their partner.
- Both 32/5s and 23/5s are here to experience true freedom. The phrase true freedom implies the idea of false freedoms -for example, self-indulgence, irresponsibility, or license—when 32/5s or 23/5s insist on doing whatever they want to do, whenever they want to do it.
- Most 23/5s tend to be late bloomers, taking longer to come into their confidence due to the more predominant 3 energy, with its issues of sensitivity and self-doubt; they also have stronger fears along with a stronger drive toward expression than 32/5s.

## S: Freedom and Discipline
- The freedom sought by most 32/5s and 23/5s manifests as a drive to experience and know; this freedom entails a sense of mobility in different arenas of life—physical, mental, emotional, social, sexual, and financial.
- Sometimes the drive for experience is so strong that 32/5s and 23/5s end up trying to juggle too many things to avoid missing an opportunity and end up feeling scattered or depleted.
- Both 32/5s and 23/5s can sometimes focus obsessively on whatever they are doing and lose sight of the bigger picture.
- The ultimate freedom 32/5s and 23/5s seek is internal- the freedom to be themselves, the freedom from self-doubt, the freedom from fear.
- Only by establishing this internal sense of expansiveness can they feel the fulfillment of their destiny in the external world.
- Most 5s have explored many areas of life. The liability is that they get a broad range of experience, but a relatively shallow one.
- Just as 2s tend to swing back and forth between the extremes of undercooperation and overcooperation, 32/5s and 23/5s tend to swing between the extremes of dependence and independence.
- Out of insecurity, both 32/5s and 23/5s tend to hide behind their social roles.
- Whether they spend their weekends going on safari or watching the soaps, skydiving or taking care of children, 32/5s and 23/5s have a vivacious quality, a renaissance view of the world. 

## Working 32/5 or 23/5 in the Positive
- Feeling free inside, unbounded by limiting beliefs or fears, these multifaceted individuals are willing to take emotional risks.
- Passionate and adventurous, like Zorba the Greek, they teach by example and excitement.
- With their quick minds, they see and describe life in new ways.
- They have formed good habits and enjoy variety within a daily routine.

## Working 32/5 or 23/5 in the Negative
- Feeling insecure, these individuals manipulate and control others, usually by getting angry or by withdrawing.
- They unintentionally create situations in which they become dependent on someone or something, such as drugs or money.
- Scattered and quickly bored, they are emotional con artists. 

## Health
- Both 32/5s and 23/5s have a sensitive body that tends toward the slim and wiry due to their fast metabolism, which reflects the pace of their lives.
- Because of their sensitivity, they may use fat or muscle as a psychic buffer.
- The throat area may reflect issues of withheld expression, but more commonly, 32/5s and 23/5s need to avoid overtaxing their adrenals and nervous system, since they tend to get scattered and stressed or fatigued.
- If they have erratic or undisciplined habits of diet or exercise, their circulatory system may suffer.
- If they use drugs as a form of "adventure," they will eventually come, through hard experience, to learn that drugs can only enslave them.

## Relationships
- Those who travel alone in life, with no responsibilities to spouse, partner, or children, seem to have a kind of "freedom" in the sense of having no one to answer to and fewer compromises to make.
- Because of built-in challenges in the areas of freedom and independence, some 32/5s and 23/5s may project their own lack of internal freedom onto their partner, companion, or children.
- Both 32/5s and 23/5 s have an emotionally sensitive body and energy field, but both often have some difficulty revealing their feelings.
- They also need to acknowledge a desire for variety and adventure and find a way to fulfill this desire with their partner if they are in a committed relationship. 
- In the area of sexuality, 32/5s and 23/5s can be very shy and insecure or sensual, adventurous, and passionate—or all of the preceding.
- They often enjoy fantasies and playing different roles.

## Talents, Work, and Finances
- These individuals appreciate variety as the spice of life, so any occupation that allows them to explore many facets of experience, such as teaching, writing, acting, music, politics, leading trainings, court reporting, or sales work that involves travel and working with a variety of people, can suit their talents and interests.
- Financially, even though security is an issue, money isn't as high a priority as the experiences it can buy; given a choice between money in savings or a chance for adventure or a learning experience, 32/5s and 23/5s will elect the experience, and they may sometimes spend money before they earn it. 
- They appreciate a safe, secure home base (preferably with a fireplace), but when they come to their full confidence, 32/5s and 23/5s tend to trade security for adventure.
- With the quick wit of 5s, they can usually find or create money when they need it and stay at least one step ahead of any creditors.