## Understanding Life Purpose
- Those on the 38/11 life path are here to combine creativity and material success, learning to apply their power and express their energy with compassion and generosity. 
- What we're here to do doesn't come easily; the life purpose of 38/11s is no exception. 
- With a creative drive even more powerful than other double Is due to the influence of 8 energy, 38/11s have to deal with powerful insecurity and self-doubt, as well as a tendency to give away, avoid, or sabotage their own power or abundance.
- 38/11s must eventually get in touch with and express their feelings and sensitivities, overcome self-doubt, and deal with 8 energy and issues related to repressed anger toward authorities so they can take on their own authority.
- Using the method outlined in this book for determining birth numbers, we do not add together the final two digits of four-digit birth numbers. 
- However, if we did add them together (1 + 1), we would end up with 38/11/2, adding the potential influence of cooperative energy (2) for 38/11s, along with double creativity (11). 
- Until 38/11s mature, their independent, even controlling nature may make them difficult to work with; they may be overly solicitous and helpful at first, but if they overhelp, the 2 energy will send them rebounding into resentment. 

## Working 38/11 in the Positive
- These inherently powerful individuals, whose power may alternately feel suppressed or explosive, have the energy and drive to make money and make waves.
- Their lifework, in whatever form it takes, involves learning to control themselves (rather than others) and directing their considerable power and energy to creative contributions that uplift and empower those around them, helping others find their own source of energy and inspiration.
- Most 38/11s feel they can't give enough and can't receive enough.
- Combining emotional sensitivity and raw, though often inhibited, power, they are driven by powerful creative energy. 
- They may spend their life holding a tiger by the tail until they tame that tiger and learn to channel their energy in positive ways. 
- Otherwise, they may suffer addictions to drugs, orgasms, or food. 
- Brilliant and powerful leaders or dynamic creative advisers, these individuals can solve long-standing problems, create new options, and open doors to a better world.
- Money isn't the main issue for them; they apply their energy, and there's always enough.
- They give and receive without keeping track of the score, and they attract others with their powerful energy field. 
- They help empower others, and they share abundantly. 
- They've learned to lead from a position of equality and mutual respect. 
- Driving the material success path with a tidal wave of energy makes for an exciting, productive life. 

## Working 38/11 in the Negative
- These individuals outmaneuver, outcompete, and overcontrol others, often through manipulation. 
- Too unsure to put themselves on the line, they deny their power and sabotage their success or, alternately, they exploit their power and seek to achieve success by dominating or outshriving others. 
- Avoiding exercise, they struggle with addictions due to blocked creative energy. 
- Frustrated by pent-up energy, they alienate others due to an aloof, negative exterior, but underneath churn gnawing self-doubts and insecurities. 

## Health
- Those working 38/11 combine a mixture of vulnerable areas and traits associated with 3 (blocked expression affecting the throat area) double 1 (reproductive area, lower abdomen, lower back), and 8 (possible self-sabotage in the form of accidents or, less frequently, burnout from overwork). 
- This doesn't imply that 38/11s will necessarily suffer any illness or accidents; maladies most often come when these individuals work negative patterns, and they can be viewed as life's feedback, signaling the need to change old habits.
- The most effective healing methodologies for 38/11s include positive visualizations, work with beliefs, acupuncture, bodywork, or other relatively subtle work with the mind and energy field.
- As long as they keep their creative energy flowing, 38/11s have sturdy dispositions and enjoy stable, vigorous health.
- Those working 38/11 like to make their own rules about nutrition. 
- Most 38/11s are too busy to make food a central issue in their lives (except for creative cooking); for most 38/11s, food is just fuel for their life and ambitions. 
- A vegetarian or modified vegetarian diet helps to balance a tendency toward aggressiveness. 
- Like other double Is, 38/11s need a great deal of exercise to release and ground their creative energy. 
- Once in shape, they thrive under a daily routine of aerobic exercise.

## Relationships
- Even though they can appear very secure, the double 1 and the 3 mean that 38/11s often seek out one or more partners to give them a better sense of themselves.
- Most 38/11s have paradoxical energy in that they need a strong person to lean on and yet they tend to control everybody in their world. 
- The nature of their relationships and sexuality reveals much about how 38/11s are working through their life issues.
- Most 38/11s find that issues of power and control, as well as insecurity, may enter the bedroom with them. 
- They may use sexuality and their partner as a means of release without applying sensitivity to their partner's needs; they may give away their power or abuse it. 
- Sexually, they either like to be in charge or they like to be overpowered. 
- Bondage and sexual power games were probably invented by a 38/11.
- Of course, when working in the positive, 38/11s can have mutually satisfying relationships, sexual and otherwise. 
- In any case, their personal relationships serve as a mirror to help them understand and balance their lives. 

## Talents, Work, and Finances
- Most 38/11s are natural leaders with the important qualities of authority, sensitivity, and creativity that can help solve any problem.
- They can make admirable or despicable politicians, depending upon whether they're working their issues with power and creativity in positive or negative ways, applying power wisely and with authority or using power to subjugate others.
- While not all 38/11s serve in obvious positions of authority, they may guide others at school, at work, or at home through their innately powerful mind and creative ideas. 
- They make capable inventors, innovators, and leaders in creative fields, such as business or fine arts. 
- Many 38/11s work as business entrepreneurs, empire builders, heads of state, or heads of small businesses. 
- Whether preachers or problem solvers, they stand out in their field.
- In the financial area, 38/11s may experience self-sabotage, both desire and fear, and a tendency toward feast or famine. 
- Having a stable, conservative personal or business partner who is good with money can help. 
- When 38/11s dedicate their creativity toward the common good, making a positive difference in the world, money comes to them naturally. 
- The more energy and service they put into the world, the more money comes back. 
