## Understanding Life Purpose
- Those on the 39/12 life path are here to work through issues of creativity, cooperation, and integrity, expressing themselves through creative teamwork, aligned with higher wisdom, in a spirit of mutual cooperation.
- Examples of cooperative teams include the Wright brothers, Gilbert and Sullivan, Barnum and Bailey, Rogers and Hammerstein, and Fred Astaire and Ginger Rogers; sports teams also represent a form of creative cooperation.
- The life purpose of all Is involves creative energy, but most Is can create in relative independence or even isolation.
- Because of the combined influence of 2, the abundant creative energy of 39/12s manifests best in cooperation with others, creating a whole greater than the sum of the independent parts.
- Although 39/12s share the core 12 with 48/12s, their life path differs considerably because they combine the emotional sensitivity and expressive drives of 3s with strong 9 energy. 
- 39/12s feel most fulfilled if they cooperate in alignment with higher principles or spiritual laws, and if their work allows them to grow and learn.
- People working birth numbers like 20/2 or 30/3 have all of their energetic eggs in one basket; they confront their life path directly early on.

## Working 39/12 in the Positive
- The many fine qualities these individuals possess are magnified through their interaction and collaboration with others.
- They bring passion, presence, and expressive creativity into the world.
- They respect others' opinions as well as their own.
- They make loyal friends, and their relationships are based on heartfelt feeling and deep understanding and respect.
- These individuals show class and refinement, strength and sensitivity.

## Working 39/12 in the Negative
- Stubborn and insecure, these individuals create in the negative through complaints and cutting remarks that reflect the depth of overwhelming passions for which they can find no outlet. 
- They overgive, then find fault and withdraw.
- They have trouble getting along, even with themselves, as their drives compete for priority and attention and their mind whirls as they try to decide what they should do and for whom.
- They feel as if they're living for other people, at the whim of others' needs and opinions.
- They have unusual, emotionally generated physical ailments stemming from frustrated expression. 
- They feel lonely and isolated.

## Health
- Because of the emotional sensitivity and depth of 39/12s, what troubles them cuts deep. 
- Their hypersensitivity is aggravated by the tendency to feel responsible.
- When under stress or when their energies are suppressed, they are susceptible to psychosomatic maladies and unusual illnesses, not just colds or the flu.
- This tendency decreases as 39/12s begin to work their life purpose in the positive.

## Relationships
- Those working 39/12 are fed, nourished, and guided by their emotions. 
- As long as 39/12s stay attuned to their feelings, they make good choices in relationships.
- They generally intuit, although not always consciously, that their primary relationship serves a larger purpose.
- People working certain birth numbers do not require relationships to fulfill their life purpose, but 39/12s nearly always feel a drive to share their life with someone, for only in relationship and cooperation does their creativity find its fullest expression.
- However, their relationships also serve as clear mirrors of all of their major issues, including self-doubt and insecurity, vulnerability to others' opinions, the need for honest expression, and, foremost, issues of cooperation. 
- All 39/12s in relationship need an understanding and compassionate partner—someone who shares rather than makes too many demands, because even though they have much to give, 39/12s tend to overgive in response to demands and then feel drained.

## Talents, Work, and Finances
- Once they find their confidence, 39/12s make natural performers in many fields, whether they act, make sales presentations, tell stories, or give inspired sermons.
- They also do very well in creative support positions, for example, as book or magazine editors.
- Their charisma eventually brings recognition, even if they start in the background.
- They also make very creative therapists who are in tune with others' feelings.
- Their multiple energies and drives lead to varied talents; these individuals can see and feel issues from different perspectives. 
- They can bring forth sensitivity or strength as needed. 
- Their strong opinions are usually well-founded, but they need to stay flexible and open.
- They do well in any field where their creative mind supports others to do their own creative work.
- They feel most inspired when their work supports a higher cause.
- Generally, the financial state of 39/12s reflects the degree to which they are working their life path in the positive—the degree to which they have overcome self-doubt and focused on an area of work that uses their talents.
- Much of their energy is spent just holding things together, finding their focus with so many competing forces and opportunities within and without.
- Most 39/12s make good money but usually choose work with other criteria predominating.
- Once they overcome self-doubt and step forward into the world with their unique combination of talents and drives, their fortunes will rise to the occasion.