## Understanding Life Purpose
- Those on the 24/6 or 42/6 life path are here to work through issues of perfectionism, process, and responsibility, taking life one step at a time, manifesting their vision in practical ways, and accepting the inherent perfection of their life.
- Both 24/6s and 42/6s tend to idealize people they've just met, or new opportunities, jobs, and places; then they feel disappointed because nothing and no one can ever quite meet their expectations.
- They need to balance their native idealism and vision with a strong dose of realism and come to appreciate the imperfections we all came here to work through.
- Despite this, 24/6s or 42/6s are not necessarily fickle or promiscuous; for the most part, their high standards and self-image help ensure high codes of behavior.
- With the combination of 2 and 4 energies, 24/6s and 42/6s bring powerful support and service energies into play.
- They have the internal strength to bring at least some of their visions into reality as they find the limits of their responsibility, master cooperation, and work toward their goals in small, persistent steps.
- Because 2 and 4 energies have more similarities than any two other digits-sharing tendencies toward overanalysis, codependency (a sense of overresponsibility for the lives and feelings of others), strength, and stubbornness —the 24/6 and 42/6 life paths are nearly identical, except for a slightly different emphasis based on the reversed order of the first two digits, 2 and 4.
- While 24/6s experience issues with family (4) somewhat more acutely than 42/6s, 42/6s have a stronger tendency toward overcooperation (2), sometimes turning to undercooperation (resistance or withdrawal). 
- Both 24/6s and 42/6s, unless they are in a very negative state, are pleasant people to be around; with the support and service energy of 2 and the easy sociability of 4, they treat other people like family.
- Due to the interaction of high standards (6s wanting to "do right" and "be good") and the tendency of both 2s and 4s to do what they think they "should" do rather than what they really feel, both 24/6s and 42/6s tend to be masters of self-deception and denial. 

## 6: Vision and Acceptance
- They tend to push themselves and others to fulfill their expectations.
- Both 24/6s and 42/6s need to appreciate the difference between true or ultimate perfection and perfectionism-unrealistically high standards that can never be fulfilled and that lead to frustration.
- Since they compare themselves with their ideals (or with ttie best people around), 24/6s and 42/6s often feel like "failures" even when they are doing very good work.
- With their strong 4 energy, 24/6s and 42/6s tend toward over-analysis, which changes to disorientation as their mind whirls, weighing all the variables. 
- Once 24/6s and 42/6s relax into life and into their body, accept and appreciate their own and others' imperfections, and learn to trust that their life reflects, in some sense, a perfect process of learning, growth, and evolution, they finally feel as if they've come home. 

## Working 24/6 or 42/6 in the Positive
- Bright, gregarious, productive, and supportive, these individuals have a good relationship with friends and associates.
- Their practical analytical ability blends common sense with high vision.
- They act with strong conscience and want to learn from their mistakes and continue to improve themselves and their world.
- Strong, healthy, and energy packed, these individuals can be counted upon to get any job done as their work evolves from good to brilliant. 
- They have a good sense of balance; they know how to give graciously and how to receive. 

## Working 24/6 or 42/6 in the Negative
- These individuals feel frustrated and impatient with their life because nothing meets their high standards or happens as quickly as they would like.
- They start out with a burst of enthusiasm and effort, but if they don't succeed quickly, they soon abandon ideas and plans without really giving them a chance to develop.
- They idealize people they meet, then feel disappointed to learn that those people have their own issues to work through.
- They don't listen well to others' feedback or advice, and they make the same mistakes over and over again.

## Health
- Most 24/6s and 42/6s have a strong constitution, resistant to illness. 
- If they do become ill, they usually heal quickly. 
- If they experience a chronic condition, they usually find they brought it on themselves through long-term resistance to change and associated tension.
- Accidents, especially to lower extremities, may be more likely if they act impulsively, get distracted, or overreach themselves.
- Their adult life may entail a process of healing and rejuvenation or a process of degeneration, based on their health habits. 
- They may develop allergies or use tobacco or alcohol to relieve frustration. 

## Relationships
- Overall, 42/6s and especially 24/6s can become frantic trying to find the perfect job or relationship.
- Commitment can frighten them, because for them, commitment means forever, but they are never sure they've found the "perfect one."
- They say, "I love you," but inside they don't know if they're really telling the truth because they aren't sure if they love enough; they aren't even sure how they feel, because they've only learned what they are "supposed to feel," and it takes time for them to contact and accept their genuine feelings, both "good" and "bad."
- Because of their gregarious nature, when working in the positive 24/6s and 42/6s make enjoyable company. 
- They need to learn to find a balance of giving and receiving and put more emphasis on vulnerability rather than on performance.

## Talents, Work, and Finances
- Strength and precision make bodywork, architecture, or service-oriented professions enjoyable kinds of work for 24/6s and 42/6s.
- They also make excellent advisers in business due to their analytical abilities and the support energy of 2.
- Some 24/6s and 42/6s even end up in some form of planning or politics to help improve the world.
- They also make natural athletes-gymnasts, divers, tennis players, or skaters. 
- The key for them is to cut through the "shoulds" and ideals and rediscover what they really feel and enjoy. 
- The finances of 24/6s and 42/6s depend upon how practical rather than idealistic they are, and whether they're willing to go through the step-by-step process and preparation necessary to reach their goals. 
- They shouldn't give up their day job, which provides the foundation and security that can enable them to move on to something that suits them better.