## Understanding Life Purpose
- Those on the 34/7 or 43/7 life path are here to work through issues of trust, patience, and emotional expression and to have faith in the spiritual process operating within their life.
- Both these life paths present the opportunity of blending the incisive mind of 7s with the down-to-earth practicality of mature 4s and the sensitivity and expressiveness of 3s.
- 34/7s and 43/7s may feel their energies in conflict, polarized, and pulling in different directions: While 7 tends to pull them "upward," 4 tends to pull them "downward."
- As these 7 and 4 energies mature and integrate, they form a powerful synthesis, enabling 34/7s and 43/7s to build a kind of bridge between heaven and Earth in creative ways.

## 7: TRUST AND OPENNESS
- Both 34/7s and 43/7s are here to harmonize apparent opposites and to blend practicality and mysticism, outer and inner experience, flesh and spirit, worldly business and spiritual pursuits.
- Generally, 34/7s and 43/7s feel safer in the realm of the mind because of their exceptional analytical abilities, but they also have powerful emotions.
- Both 34/7s and 43/7s experience a drive toward security, toward family, and toward business.
- They need to fulfill the practical part of their life and establish a stable base from which to build, step-by-step.
- People working these two life paths share 7 energy with 25/7s, but they have stronger emotional energy because of the 3.

## Working 34/7 or 43/7 in the Positive
- Strong, practical, physical, and spiritual, these individuals have learned to trust the mystery and wisdom of life working through them.
- Meditation, which quiets their mind, brings a sense of harmony and peace as a regular part of their life.
- Combining worldly interests with a commitment toward inner growth, these individuals dedicate their work, relationships, and activities to growth and awakening.

## Working 34/7 or 43/7 in the Negative
- These individuals feel torn between conflicting drives for security and desires to go inward and get away from the material world.
- Confused and troubled by a human world they don't trust, they see hypocrisy everywhere, reflecting the turmoil they feel inside.
- Self-doubt only aggravates self-trust issues, so they constantly look for teachers, techniques, and ideas that can help them.
- They become wandering spiritual vagabonds, seldom putting down roots long enough for anything to grow in their lives.

## Health
- Combining the sensitivity of 3 with the sturdiness of 4 and the mental capacity of 7 energy, 34/7s and 43/7s generally have strong bodies, but they still have a hard time trusting their own instincts or intuition.
- Due to subtle fears that their body may not know how to "take care of itself," they seek solutions in either pharmaceuticals, surgery, or subtle medicines, herbs, and food supplements.
- Strong physically and rarely ill unless stressed, both 34/7s and 43/7s can experience anxiety or "hysteria."
- 34/7s and 43/7s appreciate forms of skill training that have deeper meaning than just doing push-ups to get bigger muscles.

## Relationships
- In the positive, 34/7s and 43/7s bring stability, constancy, and feeling quality to their relationships.
- As long as they have developed open, honest communication and associated trust with their partner, their relationship thrives.
- Trust issues for 34/7s and 43/7s center on a subtle, underlying sense of feeling uncomfortable.
- The quality of their relationships and their sexual life depends upon openness, trust, and the vulnerability to share their feelings.

## Talents, Work, and Finances
- Multifaceted energies create special challenges, abilities, and opportunities for 34/7s and 43/7s.
- Both 34/7s and 43/7s have strong creative and expressive potential, and they excel in a variety of fields.
- Many 34/7s, in particular, have compulsive and impulsive spending patterns.
- Ultimately, the state of their finances depends upon the process they follow and whether they have prepared for an occupation that makes good use of their skills.

## Keys to Fulfilling Your Destiny
- If you are working 34/7 or 43/7, this section can help you manifest your life purpose by focusing your attention on core issues and by generating specific action to transform key areas of your life.
