## Understanding Life Purpose
- Those on the 46/10 life path are here to work through issues of creativity and high ideals, finding constructive ways to apply their energy and their inner gifts.
- 46/10s may be in touch with the level of vital energy and strength influenced by the 4, but they may not feel very creative due to the perfectionist influence of the 6.

## Health
- Nearly all 46/10s have a strong, highly refined body.
- The most sensitive or vulnerable areas of their body include the reproductive area, abdominal region, and, sometimes, the knees.
- Many 46/10s don't just eat; once they realize the powerful influence of diet on the body, they often study nutrition formally or informally.

## Relationships
- Accepting their "lower" emotions is a big challenge for 46/10s because they tend to focus on what they believe they "should" feel rather than with what they really feel.
- The better 46/10s know and accept themselves, the better their relationships, because then they also accept others' imperfections more readily.

## Talents, Work, and Finances
- Although their high standards, strength, analytical abilities, and sensitivity serve 46/10s in any occupation, some particularly suitable occupations include practicing some form of bodywork or serving as a personal or business adviser.
- These individuals need to avoid the trap of trying to find a "perfect" career or never feeling satisfied with any job.
- Their financial success depends on and reflects their level of self-worth —how much abundance they feel they deserve —as well as on their willingness to follow a clear process without skipping steps.

## Working 46/10 in the Positive
- These individuals have distinctive qualities of strength, sensitivity, vision, and a bright, clear field of energy.
- They have the intuitive capacity to create a vision or internal ideal, along with the strength to work as long as it takes to help bring that vision into reality.
- Pioneers who point the way, they meet with success in business and in relationships by accepting people as they are while skillfully moving to uplift and reach out even farther and higher.

## Working 46/10 in the Negative
- Impatient, frustrated, insecure and discouraged because life never meets their expectations or time tables, these individuals want heaven on Earth, right now, but they don't appreciate the work required to bring it forth; like Don Quixote tilting at windmills, they seek the "impossible dream."
- Sensitive to criticism because they criticize themselves endlessly without realizing it, they don't really hear others' feedback or advice; instead, they create rationalizations that fool even themselves.
- Their judgments interfere with their direct intuitive sight. Focusing only on problems, they discharge frustrated creative energy through abusing alcohol, other drugs, food, or sex.

## Keys to Fulfilling Your Destiny
- Recognize that achievement flows from constant practice.
- Treat your vision as a direction, not a goal.
- Keep dreaming, but create in practical ways.
- Prepare before you act; small steps make a big difference.

## Useful Questions
- How do I judge myself and others?
- How do I express my creative energy?
- How do I feel about projects that take a long time?
- How do I utilize my sensitivity and strength?
- How can I learn to think less and feel more?

## Deepening Your Understanding
- Turn to Part Two and reread the main sections covering the digits that make up your birth number: 1 (p. 31), 4 {p. 52), 6 (p. 70), and 0 (p. 103).
- You may wish to review birth numbers of family and friends and, if they are open to it, discuss similar or different issues in your lives.
