## Understanding Life Purpose
- Those on the 48/12 life path will be coming here to work through issues of creativity, teamwork, and success, cooperating with others and following a step-by-step process to create a more secure and stable world for themselves and others.
- The 48/12 life path is new on the planet; the first individuals working this energy will be born on September 29, 1999.
- Those working 48/12 will come to Earth as bearers of light and creativity. 
- Many changes are coming to Earth, including major shifts in technology and in consciousness.
- 48/12s are well suited to help create, as the old forms pass away.

## 12: Creative Cooperation
- Before 48/12s can serve such lofty purposes, however, they will first need to establish their own foundations and accept their own process and power.
- Not all 48/12s will work on a grand scale, but even in a smaller context, within family or local community, they will have the potential to share analytical brilliance and creative ideas, along with the power and influence to make these ideas into reality.
- Due to their strong power issues, 48/12s will need to act in accordance with the Law of Honesty (p. 377) at all times.
- Because of the influence of 4 and 2, these individuals will also have issues with responsibility; they may tend to overwork, driven by strong ambitions.
- Fortunately, their creative energy will help support their dominant work orientation.

## Family
- Family will also be a high priority for these individuals; they will have issues to work out with their parents, and they will learn much through their children, if they choose to have them.
- All 48/12s will need to be cautious about letting their ambitions overreach their level of skill (the process issues of 4s) or their sense of integrity (the honesty issues of 8s).

## Working 48/12 in the Positive
- These individuals will learn the lessons of process through their experience: "When in a hurry, slow down," and "Better to do it right than do it over."
- In working through their own family issues, they will develop compassion and understanding.
- Creative troubleshooters, they will find the self-control, the integrated talents, and the drives to support the common good effectively and powerfully.
- Through creative service, they will find the recognition they desire.
- Happiest where the action is, in the center of the cyclone, they will serve where they can, in the way that gives them the most joy, often as pioneers of new frontiers.

## Working 48/12 in the Negative
- Caught in a maelstrom of change like a rigid tree in a high wind, these individuals will fight to maintain control in a world that feels out of control, reflecting their inner turbulence and frustrated ambition.
- Their creative energy will demand release, but they will withhold it, afraid of what it might do.
- They will bend over backward to help other people and then resent it.
- They may end up "helping by command," even in their own family.
- They will resent others' authority until they find the courage to apply their own.

## Health
- In almost every case, the state of health and vitality of 48/12s will depend upon the process they follow: If they learn patience and practice a regular regimen of conscious nutrition and exercise, their exceptionally strong disposition will sustain vigorous health.
- They will be susceptible to mind-produced stress and corresponding tension if they start to feel overly responsible or concerned with everyone else's life.
- In the worst case, their immune system will become compromised, with long-term debilitating effects.
- These symptoms will appear, however, only after long-term stress.
- Meditation practice can serve as a very direct means of reducing stress and enhancing the health of 48/12s by balancing their tendency toward aggressiveness.
- Most 48/12s will tend to put on weight easily, especially if their creative energy is blocked.
- A low-fat, vegetarian or semivegetarian diet will work well for them in the long run.
- Regular, rather than intermittent, exercise will offer a stable process of training very important to 48/12s; otherwise, they may be prone to injuries of knees, ankles, or lower extremities.
- They may also have congenital (inherited) problems to deal with.
- Pursuing healing for these problems will serve to expand their sense of compassion for the afflictions of others.
- Physical training can also form the foundation of a strong body that will take them far in life and teach them deep lessons about the process of accomplishing any goal.

## Relationships
- At their best, 48/12s will be strong, loyal, dependable, and supportive, but their life will be based more on reason than romance.
- It's important that their mate or companions understand this and not hold unrealistic expectations of them.
- Any long-term relationships will have to be based on mutual support and cooperation.
- Feelings alone, or even sexual compatibility, may not be enough to satisfy their greater needs and ambitions.
- They will need a helpmate, not just a lover, or their circumstances may give them plenty of helpmates, and a lover may be all they lack.
- Sexuality will be important to 48/12s, not just as a means to satisfy their needs and use their creative energy, but also as a point of connection, providing one of the only settings where they show vulnerability.

## Talents, Work, and Finances
- The 4 energy will mean success in business due to a practical nature, as long as 48/12s don't skip any steps; the 8 energy will bring a drive for wealth, power, and recognition that will spur them to their goals.
- With patience, 48/12s will inevitably achieve all they set out to accomplish.
- Their creative energy and analytical skills will make it more likely that they'll form independent enterprises of their own.
- They can build structures, shape materials, or creatively troubleshoot.
- They enjoy pioneering new frontiers.
- Some 48/12s may become skilled mechanics, for example; others will found a family or a business empire that supports many people.
- They will tend to be innovators in many fields, from creative athletes to artist-entrepreneurs.
- With the blend of 4, 8, and 12, 48/12s will experience struggles as they move toward their goals, but with persistence, they will see their work come to fruition.
- If they make a clear commitment, build a solid foundation, and follow their plan step-by-step while staying flexible for contingencies, and if they serve the greater good, they will use money and authority doing what they love, working cooperatively with others.